E v o l D i r
July 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .51
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Conferences
Barcelona Systematics Sep25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Barcelona Systematics Sep25-27 Registration . . . . . . . 2
Cambridge HumanOrigins Jul5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10 CallAbstracts . . . . . .3
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 OnSiteChildcareSpecialOf-
fer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
DalhousieU Endocytobiology Aug18-22 3 . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Fiji ONLINE BarcodingBiodiversity Jul8-12 2 . . . . . . 4
Fredericton VolvoxEvolution Jul31-Aug3 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Halifax PlantGenomics Aug12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Heraklion MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity Oct7-9 .5
Innsbruck Austria Wolbachia Jun6-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22 SpeciationContinuum . . . . 6
Kuching Malaysia InsectEvolution Nov8-12 . . . . . . . . . 7
Lausanne QuestForOrthologs3 Jul24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Lillehammer Norway AnimalGeneticResources Jan27-
29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Lyon ComparativeGenomics Oct17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Madison Wisconsin SwitchgrassEvolution Sep10-12 . 9Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20 Deadline2 . . . . . . . . 9
Oslo 2013Galaxy Jun30-Jul2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Paris IMMEM-10 MicrobeEvolution Oct2-5 Abstract-
Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Paris IMMEM-10 MicrobeEvolution Oct2-5 Deadline
11
PoloniaCastle Poland ImmunoEvolution Sep23-28 . 12
Rosco EvolutionCancer Nov2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Rostock WilliyHennigSociety Aug3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Seville Adaptation Sep18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Snowbird Utah Evolution2013 Jun21-25 Housing 2 14
TahoeCity CA InvertMicrobeInteraction Jan26 . . . . 15
UBirmingham DaphniaGenomics Jan19-22 . . . . . . . . 15
UCambridge HumanOrigins Jul5 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UFlorida BarkBeetleEvolution May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Vienna PopGenetics Nov1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Barcelona Systematics Sep25-27
Dear Friends and Colleagues:
You are kindly invited to attend the II Iberian Congress
of Biological Systematics - CISA 2013 that will take
place in Barcelona from September 25-27, 2013.
CISA2013 aims to provide an arena for presenting lead-
ing research in biosystematics, to encourage participa-
tion of young researchers and to stir up fruitful discus-
sion in the eld.
Registration and abstract submission is now open.
Please, visit our website at http://www.CISA2013.org
for registration and further information on the program,
invited speakers, social events, fees and deadlines.
The CISA2013 Organizing Committee
j.gomez-zurita@ibe.upf-csic.esBarcelona Systematics Sep25-27
Registration
Dear colleagues,
This is a friendly reminder that theREGISTRATIO-
NandABSTRACT SUBMISSIONfor the/II IBERIAN
CONGRESS OF BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMATICS -
/CISA'2013will close in one week, on June 30th, 2013.
We would also like to remind you that registration is
limited to 150 participants and that registration and
contributions will be accepted on rst-come, rst-served
basis.
To register, pleasevisithttp://www.CISA2013.org[1] .
Best regards, The Organizing Committee
Links:July 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
[1] http://www.cisa2013.or[29 ~ g/ \JESUS.GOMEZ-
ZURITA.FRAU.592917" <j.gomez-zurita@ibe.upf-
csic.es >
Cambridge HumanOrigins Jul5
Registration is now open for the conference
RELOCATING HUMAN ORIGINS - WHAT IF
ADAM LIVED IN THE FOREST?
Homepage:
http://relocatingorigin.soc.srcf.net/ Registration:
http://relocatingorigin.soc.srcf.net/?page id- Please
note that the deadline for the call for papers has been
extended till Sunday June 23rd.
CALL FOR PAPERS - RELOCATING HUMAN ORI-
GINS - WHAT IF ADAM LIVED IN THE FOREST?
LOCATION: University of Cambridge ORGANIZERS:
Doctoral Students, Division of Biological Anthropology
DATE: July 5, 2013
NOW ACCEPTING ABSTRACTS FOR: \ 15 Minute
Oral Presentations Live at Conference Remotely Web-
cast Pre-Recorded and Archived on Conference Website
" Posters
THEME: Conventional scientic wisdom holds that
modern humans evolved in the East African savannah.
But what if the cradle of human evolution was actu-
ally the Central African forest, as hinted by new Y-
chromosome results? How might this change our under-
standing of human evolution? This conference explores
the implications of a forest origin for human population
genetics, disease ecology, social systems, and cultural
evolution.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Prof Mark Thomas, Univer-
sity College London: Genetics of Forest Ancestry Dr
Corey Fincher, University of Glasgow: Origins of cul-
tural and biological diversity Dr Tom Currie, University
College London: Habitat Productivity & Ethnolinguis-
tic Diversity Dr Peter Walsh, University of Cambridge:
Disease, Social Complexity & Innovation
Can't make it to Cambridge? The entire conference
will be webcast.
PLEASE SEND YOUR ABSTRACTS TILL
23/06/2013 TO:
bioanth-conference2013-abstracts@lists.cam.ac.uk\C.E. Inchley" <cei23@cam.ac.uk >
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10
CallAbstracts
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
Abstract submission is now open for the 2014 IN-
TERNATIONAL BIOGEOGRAPHY SOCIETY
EARLY CAREER CONFERENCE, organised jointly
by the International Biogeography Society (IBS)
(http://www.biogeography.org/), the ANU Centre
for Macroevolution and Macroecology (http://-
macroevoeco.com/) and the ANU-CSIRO Centre for
Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/).
The conference will take place in Canberra, ACT, Aus-
tralia between the 7thand the 10 th of January 2014,
and aims to bring together early career researchers,
along with more experienced scientists, working on
many aspects of biogeography.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS JULY 30
To submit your abstract, please visit:
http://www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/-
2014ECC/index.html CONFIRMED KEYNOTE
SPEAKERS:
Prof Craig Moritz (ANU)
Dr Simon Ferrier (CSIRO)
Dr Michael Kearney (UniMelb)
For more information about the conference, please visit
the conference website.
Student participation will be supported by awards of-
fered by the IBS. To apply for a student award, please
follow the instructions given on the website.
We look forward to welcoming you to Canberra in Jan-
uary 2014!
The ANU Organising Committee
Haris Saslis-Lagoudakis
Peter Cowman
Dan Warren
Dan Rosauer
Marcel Cardillo
Renee Catullo4 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ibsconference2014@gmail.com
@ibs2014
The local organising committee, IBS Early Career Con-
ference 2014 @ibs2014
IBS Early Career Conference 2014
<ibsconference2014@gmail.com >
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
OnSiteChildcareSpecialOer
SMBE on-site Childcare
2013 Annual Meeting of the Society for Molecular and
Evolution
July 7-11, Chicago, USA
We are oering a special oer of half rate for the next
10 children to be registered.
Half rate per child, per session are:
US$ 15 Faculty US$ 12 Grad students and Post-docs
Childcare will be available from 8:00AM - 6:30 PM at
the conference venue (Hyatt Regency Chicago), divided
into morning and afternoon sessions, on July 8-11. Li-
censed childcare workers will provide fun activities for
kids in a safe, caring environment.
Detailed information about rates and payments can be
found on:
http://smbe2013.org/2013/Registration/Childcare-
Information.aspx Space is limited, so register you
child soon!
Questions about childcare and payment can be directed
to cornellacademy4kids@gmail.com (please put 'SMBE
2013' in the subject line)
We look forward to meeting you and your children.
Maria D. Vibranovski Assistant Professor Department
of Genetics and Evolutionary Biology University of
S~ ao Paulo Rua do Mat~ ao 27, Cidade Universit aria S~ ao
Paulo, SP, 05508-090 Brazil
Phone : +55 (11) 3091-0952 e-mail : mdv@ib.usp.br
mdv@ib.usp.brDalhousieU Endocytobiology
Aug18-22 3
12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology and
Symbiosis
August 18th - 22nd, 2013 Dalhousie University, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, CANADA
FIFTH CIRCULAR (13 June 2013)
Dear Colleagues,
There is still time to register for the 12th International
Colloquium on Endocytobiology and Symbiosis of the
International Society of Endocytobiology (ISE), which
will be held August 18th to 22nd 2013 at Dalhousie
University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
There will be registration and an opening reception the
evening of Sunday August 18. Talks will begin the
morning of August 19th.
CONFERENCE WEBSITE
http://ices2013.biochem.dal.ca The colloquium will
cover the latest research on all aspects of endosym-
biosis and the biology of endosymbiotically-derived or-
ganelles. We look forward to seeing you in Halifax!
Best regards, John Archibald
John Archibald <jmarchib@Dal.Ca >
Fiji ONLINE BarcodingBiodiversity
Jul8-12 2
The Consortium for the Barcode of Life (CBOL
<http://www.barcodeoife.org/content/about/what-
cbol>) at the Smithsonian Institution and CSIRO <
http://www.csiro.au/ >in Canberra, Australia, are
the co-organizers of a full-day symposium/workshop
on \Connecting Biodiversity Collections in the Pa-
cic: Digitization through DNA Barcoding and Infor-
matics". The event will take place during the 12th
Pacic Science Association Inter-Congress <http://-
www.psi2013.usp.ac.fj/ >, Suva, Fiji 8-12 July 2013.
To make the event as accessible as possible, it will beJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
webcast as a GoToWebinar. Registrants will see and
hear all presentations and discussions and will be able
to pose questions to the presenters. The sessions are:
* Collection digitization, chaired by Beth Mantle,
CSIRO: Wednesday afternoon from 14:20 to 17:30 (Fiji
time, GMT +12 hours)
* DNA barcoding, chaired by David Schindel, CBOL,
Smithsonian Institution: Thursday morning from
11:00-12:20 (Fiji time)
Information on the symposium/workshop and the
webinar registration form can be found at http:/-
/connect.barcodeoife.net/events/psa12 . Barcode
of Wildlife Project now on Google+ <https://-
plus.google.com/u/0/b/107778383819228315340/-
107778383819228315340/posts/p/pub >
\Schindel, David" <schindeld@si.edu >
Fredericton VolvoxEvolution
Jul31-Aug3 DeadlineExtended
The 2nd International Volvox Conference
EARLY REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO JUNE 15TH
Please join us for the 2nd International Volvox Con-
ference (focused on the green alga Volvox and its close
relatives) to be held July 31 V August 3, 2013, in Fred-
ericton (New Brunswick, Canada). This is the second of
what we hope to be a long series of Volvox meetings to
be held every other year, alternating with the Chlamy-
domonas meetings. The rst meeting, in 2011, was a
great success (www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/). Volvocine al-
gae have become an important model system for the
evolution of multicellularity, development and cellular
dierentiation, and lately have yielded important re-
sults in elds as diverse as genomics, hydrodynamics,
and social evolution. We hope that the meeting will
continue to foster exchange of ideas and expertise and
will initiate new collaborations. We also wish to attract
new people and to build a stronger Volvox community.
The meeting (through contributed papers and posters)
will highlight various aspects of the biology, taxonomy,
ecology, development, genetics/genomics and evolution
of Volvox and its relatives. For additional information
and updates please visit the Conference page at http:/-
/www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC2013).
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
Halifax PlantGenomics Aug12-15
The 9th Canadian Plant Genomics Workshop will be
held August 12-15, 2013 in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Early
bird registration rates are available until June 21st. We
have a great line up of speakers, including:
Ed Buckler - Cornell University, USA Olivier Voinnet
- ETH, Zurich, Switzerland Harry Klee - University of
Florida, USA Ann Osbourn - John Innes Centre, UK
John McKay, Laval University, Canada Robin Buell,
Michigan State, USA Tim Sharbel, IPK Gatersleben,
Germany Jerey Ross-Ibarra, UC Davis, USA
Register now at www.cpgw2013.org We hope to see
you in Halifax this summer.
Sean Myles Lead Organizer Canadian Plant Ge-
nomics Workshop 2013 Canada Research Chair in
Agricultural Genetic Diversity Dalhousie University
www.cpgw2013.org sean.michael.myles@gmail.com
Heraklion
MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity
Oct7-9
*Conference:*\Mediterranean marine biodiversity in
view of climate change and the invasion of alien species"
Heraklion, Crete, Greece
7^th to 9 ^th of October, 2013
The Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and
Aquaculture (*IMBBC*) of the Hellenic Centre for Ma-
rine Research (*HCMR*) announces the conference on
*\/Mediterranean marine biodiversity in view of cli-
mate change and the invasion of alien species/"*to be
held in the premises of \/Thalassocosmos/", Herak-
lion, Crete, Greece, from 7 ^th to 9 ^th October 2013.
The conference will be organized in the context of the
EU (FP7-REGPOT-2010-1) project \/Supporting Re-
search Potential for Marine Biodiversity and Genomics6 EvolDir July 1, 2013
in the Eastern Mediterranean/" (MARBIGEN, http:/-
/www.marbigen.org/).
The conference aims to bring together researchers of dif-
ferent elds in order to promote the multidisciplinary
and integrated research regarding the response of bio-
diversity to the climatic change and the impact of the
invasion of alien species in the Mediterranean and ad-
jacent regions.
The European Commissioner for Maritime Aairs and
Fisheries *Mrs. Maria Damanaki* will honor us giving
the opening speech of the conference.
The tentative list of distinguished invited speakers who
will give keynote lectures includes:
*Dr. Alberto Garcia*, Spanish Institute of Oceanogra-
phy (IEO), M alaga Oceanographic Center, Spain
*Professor Daniel Golani*, Department of Evolution,
Systematics and Ecology, The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Israel
*Professor Stephen Palumbi*, Department of Biological
Sciences, Stanford University, Director, Hopkins Ma-
rine Station, Stanford University, USA
*Associate Professor Vassilis Zervakis*, Department of
Marine Sciences, University of the Aegean, Greece
Further information on registration, abstract submis-
sions for oral and poster presentations and important
dates will be announced soon.
We look forward to welcoming you in Heraklion, Crete
for a scientically stimulating and socially enjoyable
meeting.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Dr. Antonios Magoulas
MARBIGEN Co-ordinator
Dr. Antoniou Aglaia (Cilia) Institute of Marine Biol-
ogy and Genetics (IMBG) Hellenic Centre for Marine
Research (HCMR) Gournes Pediados, P.O.Box 2214,
71003, Iraklio, Crete, Greece Tel.: +30 2810 337826
Fax: +30 2810 337820
Cilia Antoniou <antoniou@hcmr.gr >
Innsbruck Austria Wolbachia
Jun6-11Dear Wolbachia community,
One year and two days to go to the 8th International
Wolbachia Conference which will be held from 6 to 11
June 2014 in Innsbruck, Austria.
Topics will include, inter alia, - ecology, evolution and
development - phenotypes, diversity and distribution -
cell biology - genetics & genomics - applications in pest
control and disease management - other reproductive
parasites than Wolbachia.
We are happy to announce that the conference website
is now online: http://wolbachia2014.org Please also
consider subscribing to our newsletter to be constantly
informed about important news on the meeting: http:/-
/wolbachia2014.org/nl.php Looking forward to seeing
you in Innsbruck next year, Wolfgang Arthofer in be-
half of the WOLBACHIA 2014 Organising Committee
P. S.: Please apologize if you receive multiple copies of
this mail. All further WOLBACHIA 2014 updates will
be sent via the newsletter!
{
Dr. Wolfgang Arthofer
University of Innsbruck Molecular Ecology Group Tech-
nikerstrasse 25 / 5. OG 6020 Innsbruck, Austria
Tel +43 (0) 512 / 507 - 51751 Fax +43 (0) 512
/ 507 - 6190 Mob +43 (0) 680 / 551 2814 wolf-
gang.arthofer@uibk.ac.at
GS d-({) s:(+) a+ C(++)$ UL@ P| L+@ !E{ W++$
N+ !o !K{ w(|) O- !M{ V++ PS PE{ Y+ PGP >+
t+ 5? X R- tv- b++ DI++ !D G e+ h|- r y+
http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html.en wolf-
gang.arthofer@uibk.ac.at
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22
SpeciationContinuum
The AGA meeting is less than a month away. Did you
know that, in addition to awesome speakers and a beau-
tiful location, the very low registration fee includes a
year's membership in AGA? That means receiving the
Journal, having access to the +100 year archive, and
being eligible to compete for generous awards. Plus,
registration includes lunch! And there is very nice, in-
expensive, on-campus housing. Students, this is an op-
portunity to meet your heroes at a small meeting whereJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
they will actually have time to engage with you.
Details and registration at: http://www.theaga.org/
Anjanette Baker Managing Editor Journal of Heredity
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu
Kuching Malaysia InsectEvolution
Nov8-12
The next \ Global conference of entomology" will take
place from 8-12 November, 2013, at Kuching, Sarawak,
Malaysia. The information is available on http://-
www.gce2013.com/ Theme: $B!H(BInsects and Hu-
manity in the 21st Century$B!I(B
Technical Sessions:
Insect taxonomy and systematics including geography
Insect ecology-population dynamics, climate change In-
sect toxicology: insecticide ecacy and resistance In-
sect behaviour and physiology Insect Molecular Genet-
ics, Molecular biology and biotechnology Insect Bio-
chemistry and physiology Insect Pathology and biolog-
ical control Insects as vectors of crop diseases Public
health, medical and veterinary entomology Forest en-
tomology Useful and benecial insects-sericulture, api-
culture, resin culture Insects as bioresources-food, nu-
traceuticals, medicine and environmental health mark-
ers Acarology Insect Quarantine and SPS issues In-
sect pest management Biotechnological/Innovative Ap-
proaches in insect pest management. Deadline for ab-
stract submission: June 30th 2013
Many thanks
Thierry Hance Member of the GCE2013 International
organizing Committee
Earth and life Institute Biodiversity research Center
UCL-17.07.04 Croix du Sud, 4-5 b-1348 Louvain-la-
Neuve Belgium Phone # 32 10 47 34 93 Fax # 32 10
47 34 90 Thierry.Hance@uclouvain.be
Thierry Hance <Thierry.Hance@uclouvain.be >
Lausanne QuestForOrthologs3
Jul24-26Dear colleagues,
We invite applications to the third Quest for Orthologs
meeting, in Lausanne, Switzerland, July 24-26.
The QfO is an international scientic meeting that cov-
ers all aspects of orthology prediction, benchmarking,
and application.
Further details at http://edu.isb-sib.ch/course/-
view.php?id=3D144 Marc
Marc Robinson-Rechavi Department of Ecology and
Evolution Biophore 3219, University of Lausanne, 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland tel: +41 21 692 4220 fax: +41
21 692 4165 http://bioinfo.unil.ch/ Twitter: @marc rr
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics http://www.isb-
sib.ch/groups/lausanne/eb-robinson-rechavi.html La
liberte ne s'use que quand on ne s'en sert pas
Marc.Robinson-Rechavi@unil.ch
Lillehammer Norway
AnimalGeneticResources Jan27-29
'Dear all,
We are pleased to announce that a conference on *\Ge-
netic Resources for Food and Agriculture in a Chang-
ing Climate" *will take place at Lillehammer, Norway,
27^th { 29 ^th of January 2014.
The main aims of the conference are to:
* contribute to an understanding of climate change and
its predicted impact on agriculture and forestry * in-
crease our understanding of adaptive genetic diversity
and adaptation * assess how genetic resources for food
and agriculture are aected by the changing climate *
discuss the consequences that climate change challenges
bring upon the sustainable utilization of plant, animal
and forest genetic resources
The conference aims at bringing together participants
from all areas relevant to genetic resources for food and
agriculture in a changing climate. The conference will
focus on the scientic frontiers in this area as well as
create a possibility for discussions from the political
point of view.
The conference is organized by the Nordic Genetic
Resource Center (NordGen, http://www.nordgen.org/-
index.php/en/content/view/full/2/) and four re-
search networks under a program entitled \Climate
ChangeImpacts, Adaptation and Mitigation in Nordic8 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Primary Industries" nanced by the Nordic Council of
Ministers and NordForsk. The results of three years
network activity of the four networks will be presented
during the conference.
The meeting is directed towards scientists, students,
national genetic resource coordinators, breeding asso-
ciation representatives, government ocials and other
stakeholders with special interest in genetic resources
for food and agriculture in a changing climate.
Please, follow the link below to the conference home-
pages for the preliminary scientic program, call for
abstracts, and registration and practical information.
https://sites.google.com/a/nordgen.org/agricultural-
genetic-resources-in-changing-climate/home Feel free
to distribute this invitation amongst your colleagues
and other institutions.
Best regards,
Anne Prbel'
Torsten Nygaard Kristensen
<torsten.nygaard@nordgen.org >
Lyon ComparativeGenomics
Oct17-19
Eleventh Annual RECOMB Satellite Workshop on
Comparative Genomics
October 17-19, 2013, Lyon, France
Website: http://rcg2013.sciencesconf.org/ Contribu-
tions to the workshop are welcomed on any theoret-
ical and/or empirical approach to genome-wide com-
parison. This includes genome evolution, algorithms
for genome rearrangement, comparative tools for as-
sembly, gene identication or annotation, comparison of
functional networks, genomic variation in humans and
model organisms, cancer genomics, duplication pat-
terns of genes, segments and whole genomes, and com-
parative epigenetics. We encourage paper submissions
that oer new biological ndings or otherwise highlight
their relevance to biology. Refereed papers will be pub-
lished as open-access manuscripts in the journal BMC
Bioinformatics.
||{
KEY DATES
Paper submission deadline June 21, 2013Acceptance notication July 19, 2013
Workshop October 17-19, 2013 - Lyon, France
||{
CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
- Tal Dagan, Heinrich Heine Universit at, Dusseldorf
- France Denoeud, Genoscope CEA, France
- Laurent Duret, Laboratoire de Biom etrie et Biologie
~Avolutive, Lyon
- Nicolas Galtier, Institut des Sciences d'Evolution de
Montpellier
- Ludovic Orlando, Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural
History Museum of Denmark
||{
THEME AND SCOPE
The continuing advance of DNA sequencing technol-
ogy has produced an avalanche of genome sequence
and genome structural information across the evolu-
tionary spectrum. Transforming that information into
biological knowledge requires creative and innovative
new computational and statistical methods for compar-
ative genomics.
The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative Ge-
nomics aims to provide the premier forum for new com-
putational developments applied to all aspects of com-
parative genomics. We solicit contributions on topics
including comparison of genome structure and organi-
zation, genome function, and evolution. We particu-
larly encourage contributions that use new computa-
tional methods to acquire new insight into biological
processes. Advances in computational theory are wel-
come, though all submissions should include genome-
scale analyses informed by comparative data.
All peer-reviewed and accepted RECOMB-CG
manuscripts will be published in a supplement to BMC
Bioinformatics as open-access, author-subsidized,
articles.
Specic topics of interest include but are not limited
to:
. Gene and genome duplication . Gene family evolution
. Genome structural variation . Algorithms for compar-
ative genomics . Genome rearrangements . Ancestral
genome reconstruction . Multiple genome alignment
. Genome sequence comparison . Modeling genome
evolution . Comparative genomics for genome anno-
tation . Gene tree reconciliation . Species and gene
tree inference . Comparative metagenomics . Compar-
ative genomics linked to proteomics, metabolomics, and
other ~omic data . Comparative genomics and gene ex-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
pression and regulation . Applications of comparative
genomic methods . Paleogenomics
||{
CALL FOR PAPERS
Papers should be submitted via the EasyChair system:
Submissions must be received in electronic form by
11:59pm (Samoa time), June 21th, 2013.
https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=-
recombcg2013 Papers submitted for review should
represent original, previously unpublished work. At
the time the paper is submitted to the conference,
and for the entire review period, the paper should not
be under review by any other conference or scientic
journal.
At least one author per each successful submission is
required to register and present the paper at the work-
shop. The paper will be included in the conference
proceedings, which will be published in BMC Bioinfor-
matics as open-access author-subsidized articles.
Authors are encouraged to use the BMC document
templates when preparing manuscripts. Templates are
available in Microsoft and LaTeX formats. Otherwise,
submissions should be typeset as double-spaced A4
pages with at least 1-inch margins all around in a mini-
mum of 10 point font. Submissions should be limited to
16 pages, everything included (title, authors, addresses,
abstract, references, gures, tables). Exceptions to this
limit may be granted by consultation with the Program
Committee Chairs. Submissions must include the cor-
responding author's email address.
When preparing your submission please follow the
instructions for authors of BMC supplements: http:/-
/www.u.br/recombcg/docs/Instructions-for-authors-
BMC-Appendix-B.pdf . Submitted manuscripts must
be rendered to PDF format prior to upload into
EasyChair at the review stage.
Address any questions to the program committee
chairs: Macha Nikolski macha (at) labri (dot) fr
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMadison Wisconsin
SwitchgrassEvolution Sep10-12
Announcing SWITCHGRASS II, taking place in Madi-
son, Wisconsin, USA, September 10-12 2013 at the
Monona Terrace Convention Center. Registration,
housing, and abstract submission information avail-
able at the following website: www.dfrc.wisc.edu/-
switchgrass . The conference will bring together scien-
tists and students interested in switchgrass and other
prairie grasses to discuss the state of the art of prairie
grass research. It will be an excellent opportunity to
meet and interact with researchers from a wide range
of disciplines, including agronomy, physiology, ecology,
soil science, pathology, entomology, genetics, genomics,
and molecular biology. The conference will include a
eld tour, several plenary presentations, selected volun-
teered oral presentations, a poster session, and a com-
munity workshop.
Program Highlights:
All-day tour of prairie/savanna and bioenergy research.
Eight topical areas, each with one invited speaker. One-
day poster session, organized according to the eight top-
ical areas.
A small group of abstracts from each topical area will
be chosen, with the author's permission, for oral presen-
tations. The committee will make this decision before
the conference, so that authors have time to plan for
an oral presentation.
Abstract submission deadline: 11:59pm Friday 16 Au-
gust (Central Daylight Time USA)
Registration deadline: 1 September
For more information contact mdcasler@wisc.edu or
jaraasch@tds.net.
John.Raasch@ARS.USDA.GOV
Marseilles 17thEvolBiol Sep17-20
Deadline2
Dear all
the dead line for the abstract submissions for the 17th
EBM is june 30 We have also an latter dead line10 EvolDir July 1, 2013
but based on the previous years no more spot avail-
able for oral presentations The program will be avail-
able the rst week of July more info http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol-cgr/ all the best
Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >
Oslo 2013Galaxy Jun30-Jul2 2
This is the nal registration reminder for the 2013
Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2013, http://-
galaxyproject.org/GCC2013), being held in Oslo, 30
June through July 2. GCC2013 is a great opportu-
nity to share best practices and network with other
researchers who are also facing the challenges of data-
intensive biology.
Registration closes June 14. Register now and guar-
antee your spot in the Training Day sessions you
want to take. Registration is still a bargain with the
full 3-day registration starting at ~^ a:165forpost 
docsandstudents (orjust ^a:55perday ):
The program features
15 Training Day sessions in 5 tracks on 12 dierent top-
ics, 25 Talks on topics ranging from Reproducibility to
Exploiting Galaxy, 23 Posters (and counting), 2 Light-
ning Talk sessions, and a end-of-conference event at an
historic venue high above Oslo.
Ser frem til ~A se deg i Oslo!
The GCC2013 Organizing Committee
{ http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2013 http://-
galaxyproject.org/ http://getgalaxy.org/ http://-
usegalaxy.org/ http://wiki.galaxyproject.org/ Dave
Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org >
Paris IMMEM-10 MicrobeEvolution
Oct2-5 AbstractDeadline
IMMEM-10 conference: only a few days left to submit
your abstract and for early registration fee
Dear Colleague,We remind you that June 30th, 2013 will be the dead-
line for abstract submission and early registration fee
at IMMEM-10, the 10th edition of the International
Meeting on Microbial Epidemiological Markers (Paris,
October 2 - 5, 2013).
A total of 33 abstracts will be selected for oral presenta-
tion. Please refer to the scientic programme for latest
sessions and topics, available through the conference
web site at http://www.immem-10.org . More than
250 abstracts have been submitted already. IMMEM-
10 promises to be a very successful meeting.
We recommend all participants to arrange their accom-
modation in Paris as early as possible. Automn is a
high season in Paris, and there are several medical con-
gresses and sporting events in October, in particular,
so hotels should be booked early.
Travel grants and free registration can be oered to a
number of young scientists ( <36 years). Please see our
website. Deadline is also June 30th.
Thank you for circulating the information among your
colleagues.
Sylvain Brisse Institut Pasteur, Paris, France on be-
half of the Organizing Committee http://www.immem-
10.org IMMEM-10 topics The ability of microbes
- bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites - to mutate
rapidly, disseminate and adapt to new hosts and envi-
ronments, forces us to increase our capabilities for the
early recognition of novel strains of pathogens, and to
understand the factors that contribute to their diver-
sity, evolution and dissemination. IMMEM-10 will ad-
dress a variety of topics related to pathogen emergence,
population-level diversity, evolution of virulence and
antibiotic resistance, strain tracking, typing networks,
public health and surveillance, novel typing approaches,
high-throughput sequencing, genomics, and molecular
epidemiology of infectious diseases. The meeting will
take place at Institut Pasteur, in the heart of Paris.
Scientic Sessions Bioinformatics tools for genome-
based microbial surveillance Outbreak genomics and
epidemiology Population genetics, phylogenomics,
emergence Molecular typing and epidemiology Novel
typing methods for pathogen surveillance Practical
use of typing methods in epidemiology Typing and
surveillance networks in practice Round table: the
Global Microbial Identier initiative Phylodynamics
of viral pathogens Molecular epidemiology of viral
zoonoses Virulence: diagnostic and epidemiology Re-
sistance: diagnostic and epidemiology Diagnostic by
high-throughput sequencing Social networks and trans-
mission modelling Molecular Epidemiology from Global
Health to One HealthJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
Conrmed speakers: Mark Achtman (Warwick Uni-
versity, UK) Andrea Ammon, European Center for
Disease Control, Stockholm, Sweden Siv Andersson,
Uppsala University, Sweden John Besser, CDC, At-
lanta, USA Herv e Bourhy, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France Alessandra Carattoli, Institute of Public Health,
Rome, Italy Stewart Cole, Global Health Institute,
Lausanne, Switzerland Christian Drosten, Bonn Uni-
versity, Germany Pierre Formenty , World Health Or-
ganization, Gen eve, Switzerland Alex Friedrich, Uni-
versity Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands
Peter Gerner-Smidt, Center for Disease Control, At-
lanta, USA Matthew Gilmour, Public Health Agency
of Canada, Winnipeg, Canada Hajo Grundmann, Na-
tional Institute for Public Health (RIVM), Bilthoven,
The Netherlands Dag Harmsen, Universit atsklinikum
M unster, M unster, Germany Alan Hay, MRC Na-
tional Inst. for Medical Research, UK Rene Hen-
driksen, DTU, Denmark Keith Jolley, Oxford Uni-
versity, UK Philippe Lemey, Leuven, Belgium Mar-
tin Maiden, Oxford University, Oxford, UK Claudine
Medigue, CEA-Genoscope, Evry, France Stephan Nie-
mann, Borstel, Germany Julian Parkhill, Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK Tim Peto, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK Laurent Poirel, Univ. Paris Sud,
Kremlin-Bic^ etre, France Marc Struelens, European
Center for Disease Control, Stockholm Anne-Mieke
Vandamme, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium Fran cois-Xavier Weill, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France
Early fee registration: June 30, 2013 Standard fee:
400 euro - Student fee: 300 euro - Pasteur fee 100
euro Abstract submission deadline: June 30, 2013 How
to register: www.immem-10.org Contact us: immem-
10@pasteur.fr
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >
Paris IMMEM-10 MicrobeEvolution
Oct2-5 Deadline
Dear Colleague,
We remind you that the deadline is June 15th, 2013 for
abstract submission at IMMEM-10, the 10th edition of
the International Meeting on Microbial Epidemiologi-
cal Markers. A total of 33 abstracts will be selected
for oral presentation. Please refer to the scientic pro-
gramme for latest sessions and topics, available through
the conference web site at http://www.immem-10.org. We recommend all participants to arrange their ac-
commodation in Paris as early as possible. Automn is a
high season in Paris, and there are several medical con-
gresses and sporting events in October, in particular,
so hotels should be booked early.
Travel grants and free registration can be oered to a
number of young scientists ( <36 years). Please see our
website.
Sylvain Brisse Institut Pasteur, Paris, France on be-
half of the Organizing Committee http://www.immem-
10.org IMMEM-10 topics The ability of microbes
- bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites - to mutate
rapidly, disseminate and adapt to new hosts and envi-
ronments, forces us to increase our capabilities for the
early recognition of novel strains of pathogens, and to
understand the factors that contribute to their diver-
sity, evolution and dissemination. IMMEM-10 will ad-
dress a variety of topics related to pathogen emergence,
population-level diversity, evolution of virulence and
antibiotic resistance, strain tracking, typing networks,
public health and surveillance, novel typing approaches,
high-throughput sequencing, genomics, and molecular
epidemiology of infectious diseases. The meeting will
take place at Institut Pasteur, in the heart of Paris.
Scientic Sessions Bioinformatics tools for genome-
based microbial surveillance Outbreak genomics and
epidemiology Population genetics, phylogenomics,
emergence Molecular typing and epidemiology Novel
typing methods for pathogen surveillance Practical
use of typing methods in epidemiology Typing and
surveillance networks in practice Round table: the
Global Microbial Identier initiative Phylodynamics
of viral pathogens Molecular epidemiology of viral
zoonoses Virulence: diagnostic and epidemiology Re-
sistance: diagnostic and epidemiology Diagnostic by
high-throughput sequencing Social networks and trans-
mission modelling Molecular Epidemiology from Global
Health to One Health
Conrmed speakers: Mark Achtman (Warwick Uni-
versity, UK) Andrea Ammon, European Center for
Disease Control, Stockholm, Sweden Siv Andersson,
Uppsala University, Sweden John Besser, CDC, At-
lanta, USA Herv e Bourhy, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France Alessandra Carattoli, Institute of Public Health,
Rome, Italy Stewart Cole, Global Health Institute,
Lausanne, Switzerland Christian Drosten, Bonn Uni-
versity, Germany Pierre Formenty , World Health Or-
ganization, Gen eve, Switzerland Alex Friedrich, Uni-
versity Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands
Peter Gerner-Smidt, Center for Disease Control, At-
lanta, USA Matthew Gilmour, Public Health Agency
of Canada, Winnipeg, Canada Hajo Grundmann, Na-12 EvolDir July 1, 2013
tional Institute for Public Health (RIVM), Bilthoven,
The Netherlands J org Hacker, Leopoldina Academia,
Berlin, Germany Dag Harmsen, Universit atsklinikum
M unster, M unster, Germany Alan Hay, MRC Na-
tional Inst. for Medical Research, UK Ren e Hen-
driksen, DTU, Denmark Keith Jolley, Oxford Uni-
versity, UK Philippe Lemey, Leuven, Belgium Mar-
tin Maiden, Oxford University, Oxford, UK Claudine
M edigue, CEA-Genoscope, Evry, France Stephan Nie-
mann, Borstel, Germany Julian Parkhill, Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK Tim Peto, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK Laurent Poirel, Univ. Paris Sud,
Kremlin-Bic^ etre, France Marc Struelens, European
Center for Disease Control, Stockholm Anne-Mieke
Vandamme, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium Fran cois-Xavier Weill, Institut Pasteur, Paris,
France
Early fee registration: June 30, 2013 Standard fee: 400
^ a: Studentfee : 300^a:Abstractsubmissiondeadline :
June 15;2013Howtoregister :www:immem 
10:orgContactus :immem 10@pasteur:fr
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >
PoloniaCastle Poland
ImmunoEvolution Sep23-28
This conference is of interest to evolutionary biologists,
since it will bring together immunologists with evolu-
tionary biologists. Evolutionary biologists nd a rich
source of open problems; vice versa, immunologists are
keen to learn from evolutionary thinking. People inter-
ested in evolutionary and ecological immunology will
nd it a great oportunity to exchange ideas in a small
setting. It focuses on invertebrates.
ESF-EMBO Symposium: Integrated Insect Immunol-
ogy: From Basic Biology to Environmental Applica-
tions
23 - 28 September 2103 Polonia Castle in Pultusk,
Poland Organised by: Dr. Dominique Ferrandonm
CNRS Strasbourg, Prof. George Christophides, Impe-
rial College London
The Forward Look Session will be chaired by Jules Ho-
mann, CNRS, FR, who was awarded the 2011 Nobel
Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on Insect
Immunity.
For infomation and application: www.esf.org/-
conferences/13423 Paul Schmid-Hempel<schmidhempel@me.com >
Rosco EvolutionCancer Nov2-6
Registation open for Jacques Monod Conference \Eco-
logical and Evolutionary Perspectives in Cancer" -
Rosco (Brittany), France, November 2-6, 2013
Cancer is a disease of opportunity, associated with
clonal evolution, expansion and competition within the
body. Specically, somatic cellular selection and evo-
lution are the fundamental processes leading to ma-
lignancy, metastasis and resistance to therapies. The
Jacques Monod Conference \Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Perspectives in Cancer" aims to promote this
emerging discipline by addressing some of the most im-
portant questions about cancerogenesis. The confer-
ence will cover 3 themes:
Interspecic patterns and processes Progression Ther-
apies
The rst theme will address the observation that in-
fectious agents can cause cancers. Persistent infections
may promote cancer because long-term host defensive
responses induce inammation that subsequently in-
creases mutation rates. Why human defensive mech-
anisms have not evolved to more eciently control
or eliminate invasive cell lineages, and why do some
species with more somatic tissue show less than ex-
pected incidences of cancer? The second theme will
evaluate the role of the tumor environment and natu-
ral selection in explaining cancer progression. To what
extent are dierent cancers predictable and what are
the key contributing variables? The third theme will
tackle the daunting challenge of employing evolution-
ary theories to improve cancer therapies. It will seek
how preventative, curative and management therapies
can be improved and even optimized to slow or stop the
emergence of resistance to chemotherapies.
Please note that participation at this conference is not
limited to research on carcinogenesis: we will consider
applications from scientists with anities towards the
themes of the conference, and working on related top-
ics from ecology and the evolutionary sciences, includ-
ing social evolution, evolution of multicellularity, resis-
tance management, evolutionary medicine of diseases,
and species invasions.
Jacques Monod Conferences organized by CNRS, are
known for the high scientic quality of the talks andJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
discussions, in a relaxed atmosphere.
Invited speakers:
AKTIPIS Athena (San Francisco, USA)
BEERENWINKEL Nico (Basel, Switzerland)
CICCARELLI Francesca (Milano, Italy)
CLAIRAMBAULT Jean (Paris, France)
CRESPI Bernard (Burnaby, Canada)
DELHOMMEAU Fran cois (Paris, France)
EWALD Paul (Louisville, USA)
FRIDMAN Herv e (Paris, France)
GATENBY Robert (Tampa, USA)
HAREL-BELLAN Annick (Gif-sur-Yvette, France)
HENG Henry (Detroit, USA)
HIBNER Urszula (Montpellier, France)
HOCHBERG Michael (Montpellier, France)
MAINI Philip (Oxford, United Kingdom)
MALEY Carlo (San Francisco, USA)
MORENO Eduardo (Bern, Switzerland)
OLIVIERI Isabelle (Montpellier, France)
PACHECO Jorge (Braga, Portugal)
PEPPER John (Bethesda, USA)
QUINTANA-MURCI Lluis (Paris, France)
RADMAN Miroslav (Paris,France)
SAVAGE Philip (London, United Kingdom)
SOL~A Ricard (Barcelona, Spain)
SPROUFFSKE Kathleen (Zurich, Switzerland)
STRATTON Michael (Cambridge, United Kingdom)
THOMAS Fr ed eric (Montpellier, France)
TLSTY Thea (San Francisco, USA)
TOMLINSON Ian (Oxford, United Kingdom)
WEITZMAN Jonathan (Paris, France)
ZUR HAUSEN Harald, Nobel Prize in Medicine (Hei-
delberg, Germany)
Deadline for registration : August 1st, 2013
Registration fee (includes lodging, meals and conference
banquet)
400^Aeuro for PhD students
520^Aeuro for other participants
Application for registrationThe total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole du-
ration of the conference. Scientists and PhD Students
interested in the meeting should send:
- their curriculum vitae
- the list of their main publications for the 3 last years
- the abstract of their presentation
to the Chairperson of the conference (mhochber@univ-
montp2.fr) before August 1st. Except in some par-
ticular cases approved by the Chairperson, it is rec-
ommended that all selected participants present their
work during the conference, either in poster form or
by a brief in- session talk. The organizers choose the
form in which the presentations are made. No payment
will be sent with the application. Information on how
and when to pay will be mailed in due time to those
selected.
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
Rostock WilliyHennigSociety
Aug3-7
!!!!!Extended registration deadline 30.6.2013!!!!!
This is to remind you about our upcoming XXXII Meet-
ing of the Willi Hennig Society in the beautiful city
of Rostock, near the Baltic coast from August 3rd to
7th, 2013. This is also a special occasion to celebrate
the 100th anniversary of Willi Hennig. Please, hurry
up to register and submit your abstracts for one of
the most exciting systematics meetings you could at-
tend! The deadline for abstract submission has been
extended until 30th of June.The conference will ad-
dress the following topics and symposia:Morphology,
Ontologies and SystematicsBiogeography, Phylogeny,
ConservationPhylogenomicsand free topics from all
elds of phylogeneticsRegistration fees are payable
via the society's website (http://www.cladistics.org/-
meetings.html) Please check our website http://-
www.zoologie.uni-rostock.de/whs-xxxii/ frequently, as
new information and details will be added regu-
larly.For any additional questions, feel free to contact
whs2013@uni-rostock.de.We are looking forward to see-
ing you in Rostock!
daschwaentna@hotmail.com14 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Seville Adaptation Sep18-20
Adapting to Global Change in the Mediterranean
September 18-20, 2013
Estacion Biologica de Do nana, Seville, Spain
Dear Colleagues,
It is our pleasure to invite you to register for the inter-
national congress \Adapting to Global Change in the
Mediterranean" in Seville September 18-20, 2013. This
congress is sponsored by an EU Regpot grant, so reg-
istration is free. All talks will be presented by invited
speakers. Abstracts for posters are welcome before July
17.
Please nd more information on the conference website:
http://ebdecogenes.ebd.csic.es/ Sincerely, The Orga-
nizing Committee
Early Registration and Poster submission deadline: 17
July 2013
Late Registration Deadline: 6 September 2013
Congress sessions are:
- Phenotypic responses to global change
- Breakdown of species boundaries
- Emergent diseases in changing environments
- Responses to past global change
- Adaptation and speciation in response to changing
environments
- Biological invasions: from species adaptation to
ecosystem responses
- Monitoring ecosystems responses
- Consequences of global change in biotic interactions
- Population responses to global change
{ Dr. Pim Edelaar
Dept. Molecular Biology and Biochemical Engineering
University Pablo de Olavide, Sevilla, Spain tel (+34)
954 978 213 edelaar@upo.es
&
Dept. Conservation Biology Estaci on Biol ogica de
Do nana - CSIC, Sevilla, Spain tel (+34) 954 466738
(ext. 1042) edelaar@ebd.csic.es/http://www.researchgate.net/prole/Pim Edelaar/
/http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
HJud5cEAAAAJ/ /http://www.ebd.csic.es/-
carnivoros/personal/edelaar/ edelaar
<edelaar@upo.es >
Snowbird Utah Evolution2013
Jun21-25 Housing 2
Housing and Childcare Updates:
1. Housing for the conference is available at Crys-
tal Inn, which is at the base of Little Cottonwood
Canyon.Crystal Inn oers free airport shuttles. In the
AM Crystal Inn will transport to a nearby bus stop
for public transportation to Snowbirdand there will be
complementary shuttle service from the meeting site
back to the hotel late in the evening (10 PM).Rooms
are still available at Snowbird from June 23 ^rd on-
wards.Call Snowbird accommodations for more infor-
mation (1-800-232-9542).
2. Cabin rental (sleeps up to 14 with two bathrooms
and kitchen) is available at Snowbird for the duration
of the meeting.Call Snowbird accommodations for more
information (1-800-232-9542).
3. Priority childcare registration ends June 3 ^rd .Con-
tact Camp Snowbird for more information By email:
campsnowbird@snowbird.com (please put 'Evolution
2013' in the subject line) By phone: (801) 933-2256
Evolution 2013 is the joint annual meeting of the
Society for the Study of Evolution <http://-
www.evolutionsociety.org/ >(SSE), the Society
of Systematic Biologists <http://systbiol.org/ >
(SSB), and the American Society of Naturalists <
http://www.amnat.org/ >(ASN), on June 21-25,
2013, at the Snowbird Alpine Village <http://-
www.snowbirdmeetings.com/?portfolio=snowbird-
restaurants >.
This meeting is the premier annual opportunity for
sharing scientic research related to evolution. Sym-
posia presentations, concurrent contributed papers, and
poster sessions will be presented by the 1,400 expected
participants. Product and service providers will con-
tribute to the meeting through their exhibits. Social
activities will include an opening reception, mixers with
each evening poster session, and a super-social/award
ceremony - *all of these mixers and receptions are in-
cluded with registration.*July 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
Evolution 2013 meets jointly with the *iEvoBio <
http://ievobio.org/ >* conference, which brings to-
gether biologists interested in evolution, systematics,
biodiversity, software, and mathematics.
You can still register for the conference - for
more information visit the conference web site:
http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/index.html
cruzan@pdx.edu
TahoeCity CA
InvertMicrobeInteraction Jan26
Keystone Symposia Mechanisms and Consequences of
Invertebrate-Microbe Interactions Granlibakken Re-
sort, Tahoe City, California, USA January 26'30, 2014
Topics Advances in Understanding of Invertebrate Im-
munity Pathogens and Biocontrol Understanding the
Function of Complex Host-Microbe Associated Micro-
bial Communities Establishment of Host-Microbe As-
sociations Ecology and Evolution of Host Immune De-
fense Host, Symbiont and Insect Vectors
Conrmed Speakers Takema Fukatsu Heidi Goodrich-
Blair Frank Jiggins Brian Lazzaro
Margaret McFall-Ngai
Nancy Moran Todd Schlenke and many more
Important Dates Discounted Abstract Deadline:
September 26, 2013 Student/Postdoc Scholarship Ap-
plication Deadline: September 26, 2013 Abstract Dead-
line: October 30, 2013 Discounted Registration Dead-
line: November 25, 2013
For more information and to view the full program, visit
www.keystonesymposia.org/14A7 Organizers: Bruno
Lemaitre, Nicole M. Gerardo and Jason Rasgon
ngerard@emory.edu
UBirmingham DaphniaGenomics
Jan19-22
\EARLY ANNOUNCEMENT: Daphnia Genomics
Consortium Conference 2014, 19th - 22nd January 2014
at the University of Birmingham, UK." Please keepthese dates free to attend the next in the series of these
quasi-annual, exciting scientic meetings. A full an-
nouncement of the Conference details, the speakers and
the scientic sessions will be released soon. This meet-
ing will focus on combining the old and the new, from
phenotypical variation, quantitative genetics and basic
aquatic ecology and limnology, to novel techniques in
bioinformatics, metabolomics and sequencing, eco-devo
and functional and evolutionary genomics.
We hope to see you there! Best wishes The Organis-
ing Committee Dr Nadine Taylor Dr Leda Mirbahai Dr
Kay Van Damme
dgc.birmingham@gmail.com
Many Thanks
Nadine
Dr Nadine Taylor Research Fellow School of Biosciences
University of Birmingham Edgbaston Birmingham B15
2TT
Tel: +44 (0)121 4145409 Email: n.s.taylor@bham.ac.uk
Nadine Taylor <n.s.taylor@bham.ac.uk >
UCambridge HumanOrigins Jul5 3
Registration is now open for the conference
RELOCATING HUMAN ORIGINS - WHAT IF
ADAM LIVED IN THE FOREST?
Join us for a day of discovery and excitement, challeng-
ing the way we do and communicate research. Come in
person or follow us online.
Homepage:
http://relocatingorigin.soc.srcf.net/ Registration:
http://relocatingorigin.soc.srcf.net/?page id- LOCA-
TION: Sainsbury Laboratory, University of Cambridge
ORGANIZERS: Doctoral Students, Division of Biolog-
ical Anthropology DATE: July 5, 2013, 9.00 - 17.45
THEME: Conventional scientic wisdom holds that
modern humans evolved in the East African savannah.
But what if the cradle of human evolution was actu-
ally the Central African forest, as hinted by new Y-
chromosome results? How might this change our under-
standing of human evolution? This conference explores
the implications of a forest origin for human population
genetics, disease ecology, social systems, and cultural
evolution.16 EvolDir July 1, 2013
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Prof Mark Thomas, Univer-
sity College London: Genetics of Forest Ancestry Dr
Corey Fincher, University of Glasgow: Origins of cul-
tural and biological diversity Dr Tom Currie, University
College London: Habitat Productivity & Ethnolinguis-
tic Diversity Dr Peter Walsh, University of Cambridge:
Disease, Social Complexity & Innovation
PANEL DISCUSSIONS: Spatialising research on ge-
netic diversity 14.00 - 15.30 with Prof Mark Thomas,
Prof Laurent Excoer, Dr Anders Eriksson
Spatialising research on cultural diversity 16.00 - 17.30
with Dr William Banks, Dr Tom Currie, Dr Corey
Fincher
Can't make it to Cambridge? The entire conference
will be webcast.
Questions? Contact us on: bioanth-conference2013-
enquiries@lists.cam.ac.uk
\C.E. Inchley" <cei23@cam.ac.uk >
UFlorida BarkBeetleEvolution May
Subject: Bark & Ambrosia Beetle Academy: mark the
calendar!
TO ALL STUDENTS AND RESEARCHERS IN FOR-
EST ENTOMOLOGY, ECOLOGY, AND RELATED
FIELDS: The Forest Entomology and Symbiology Lab
at the University of Florida is pleased to invite you to
the rst comprehensive, fun and nerdy workshop on
bark and ambrosia beetles in May 2014.
Are you a researcher or a student interested in bark
and ambrosia beetles? Do you need to know more
about the beetle identication, classication, dam-
age, or symbioses? Learn from international experts
through hands-on labs, eld demonstration, lectures,
and fun socializing. Choose one or all three modules:
Regional Applied Focus, Hardcore Identication, and
Understanding the Bug.
See details at http://www.ambrosiasymbiosis.org/-
academy/ . Sign up for updates - no spam, and you
will be notied when the registration opens!
Jiri Hulcr, PhD School of Forest Resources and Con-
servationjUniversity of Florida ph: 352-273-0299
jcell: 517-256-1894 jwww.ambrosiasymbiosis.org
\Hulcr,Jiri" <hulcr@u.edu >UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19
Please join us as we convene 10 years after the rst
GRC on Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics!
July 14-19, 2013 University of New England Biddeford,
Maine
Speakers and Discussion Leaders will present cutting-
edge genome-enabled approaches that are being used
to further our understanding of how organisms adapt
to changing environments. Specic topics to be ad-
dressed include critical research challenges in popula-
tion genetics, the study of genome evolution, the evo-
lution of complex phenotypes, and environmental and
global change biology. We have made explicit emphasis
on \ecogenomics", population genomics, and the bioin-
formatics required to understand the transition of geno-
type to phenotype.
We would like to invite you to attend this conference
and join our community in discussing the frontiers and
future challenges in this research area. Gordon Re-
search Conferences are an ideal venue for informal and
interactive discussions in beautiful locations in New
England.
Speakers and Discussion Leaders: Julien Ayroles, Cor-
nell University Rowan Barrett, Harvard University
Holly Bik, UC Davis Mark Blaxter, The University of
Edinburgh Justin Borevitz, The Australian National
University Monica C. Mu~ noz-Torres, LBNL Sinead
Collins, The University of Edinburgh Graham Coop,
UC Davis Karel De Schamphelaere, Ghent University
Maren Friesen, Michigan State University Omer Gokc-
umen, Harvard University Michael Hansen, Aarhus
University Paul Hebert, University of Guelph Jessica
Hellmann, University of Notre Dame Paul Hohenlohe,
University of Idaho Chris Jiggins, University of Cam-
bridge Felicity Jones, Max Planck Institute Ellen Ket-
terson, Indiana University Mikhail Matz, University of
Texas, Austin Gos Micklem, University of Cambridge
Stephen Palumbi, Stanford University Michael Pfren-
der, University of Notre Dame David Plachetzki, UC
Davis John Quackenbush, Harvard University Christina
Richards, University of South Florida Loren Rieseberg,
University of British Columbia Emilie Snell-Rood, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Victoria Sork, UC Los Angeles De-
nis Tagu, INRA-RENNES Diethard Tautz, Max-Planck
Institute Anne Todgham, San Francisco State Univer-
sity Thomas Turner, UC Santa Barbara Andrew White-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
head, UC Davis
For registration information and the speaker pro-
gram, visit the GRC website: http://www.grc.org/-
programs.aspx?year=2013&program=ecolevol Best
wishes, Gretchen E. Hofmann & John Colbourne, Mike
Herman & Jack Werren
Michael Herman <mherman@ksu.edu >
UNewEngland Genomics Jul14-19 2
Limited space still available for the 10 year celebra-
tion of Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics at the Gor-
don Research Conference! Applications for this meeting
must be submitted by June 16, 2013. Please apply now.
July 14-19, 2013 University of New England Biddeford,
Maine
Speakers and Discussion Leaders will present cutting-
edge genome-enabled approaches that are being used to
further our understanding of how organisms adapt to
changing environments. We hope to see a great rep-
resentation of the Daphnia Genomics community at
this meeting, already including invited speakers and
discussion leaders. Specic topics to be addressed in-
clude critical research challenges in population genetics,
the study of genome evolution, the evolution of com-
plex phenotypes, and environmental and global change
biology. We have made explicit emphasis on \ecoge-
nomics", population genomics, and the bioinformatics
required to understand the transition of genotype to
phenotype.
We would like to invite you to attend this conference
and join our community in discussing the frontiers and
future challenges in this research area. Gordon Re-
search Conferences are an ideal venue for informal and
interactive discussions in beautiful locations in New
England.
Speakers and Discussion Leaders: Julien Ayroles, Cor-
nell University Rowan Barrett, Harvard University
Holly Bik, UC Davis Mark Blaxter, The University of
Edinburgh Justin Borevitz, The Australian National
University Monica C. Mu~ noz-Torres, LBNL Sinead
Collins, The University of Edinburgh Graham Coop,
UC Davis Karel De Schamphelaere, Ghent University
Maren Friesen, Michigan State University Omer Gokc-
umen, Harvard University Michael Hansen, Aarhus
University Paul Hebert, University of Guelph Jessica
Hellmann, University of Notre Dame Paul Hohenlohe,University of Idaho Chris Jiggins, University of Cam-
bridge Felicity Jones, Max Planck Institute Ellen Ket-
terson, Indiana University Mikhail Matz, University of
Texas, Austin Gos Micklem, University of Cambridge
Stephen Palumbi, Stanford University Michael Pfren-
der, University of Notre Dame David Plachetzki, UC
Davis John Quackenbush, Harvard University Christina
Richards, University of South Florida Loren Rieseberg,
University of British Columbia Emilie Snell-Rood, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Victoria Sork, UC Los Angeles De-
nis Tagu, INRA-RENNES Diethard Tautz, Max-Planck
Institute Anne Todgham, San Francisco State Univer-
sity Thomas Turner, UC Santa Barbara Andrew White-
head, UC Davis
For registration information and the speaker pro-
gram, visit the GRC website: http://www.grc.org/-
programs.aspx?year=2013&program=ecolevol Best
wishes, Gretchen E. Hofmann & John Colbourne, Mike
Herman & Jack Werren
Michael Herman <mherman@ksu.edu >
Vienna PopGenetics Nov1-2
Announcement: Conference: Vienna, Mind the Gap 4,
1st and 2nd of November, 2013
MIND THE GAP 4 Conference Vienna, Austria 1st and
2nd of November, 2013
Bridging the gap between theoretical and empirical
population genetics
The Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics,
Vienna, Austria, and the DFG Priority Programme
\Probabilistic Structures in Evolution", Bielefeld, Ger-
many, are proud to announce the fourth MIND THE
GAP conference to be held the 1st and 2nd of Novem-
ber 2013 in Vienna, Austria.
MIND THE GAP aims at bringing together theoretical
and empirical population geneticists.
This conference is the 4th meeting in a series of con-
ferences held in Freiburg 2009, Pl on 2010, and Cologne
2011.
As in these past meetings, there are dierent main top-
ics for this conference. This year's themes are:
1. Viral and Predictive Evolution
2. Experimental Evolution
3. Signatures of Complex Selection18 EvolDir July 1, 2013
4. Introgression, Hybrid Zones, and Clines
The current list of invited speakers includes:
Nicolas Bierne, University II of Montpellier Simon
Boitard, INRA, Toulouse Luis-Miguel Chevin, Cen-
tre for Functional and Evolutionary Ecology, CNRS,
Montpellier Michael Desai, Harvard University Philip
Gerrish, University of New Mexico Toni Gossmann,
University of Sussex Joachim Krug, University of
Cologne Michael L assig, University of Cologne Hen-
rique Teot onio, University of Lisbon Jarle Tufto, Nor-
wegian University of Science and Technology Anton
Wakolbinger, Goethe-Universtit at Frankfurt
Attendance is free of charge. There are a few remainingspeaker positions for the conference and we invite you
to apply. All attendees are welcome to bring a poster.
Registration details for the conference and application
for a speaker position, along with further informa-
tion, can be found at the following website: http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at/news/mindthegap.html The
deadline for application is Sunday, 14th July, 2013. We
strongly advise participants to arrive at latest on the
evening of Thursday, 30th October, 2013 and to stay at
least until Sunday, 3rd November 2013.
http://www.popgen-vienna.at/ http:/-
/www.dfg-spp1590.de Ilse Hoellinger
<ilse.hoellinger@univie.ac.at >
GradStudentPositions
Lille France PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig 3 ComputationalBiol . . . . . . 19
MonashU MitochondrialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
SalfordU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Tulsa Oklahoma EvolutionBedBugs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UAberdeen ReproductiveSuccess . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UCanberra 2 InvasiveFish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UCollegeLondon Bioinformatics Genomics . . . . . . . . . 22
UCollege London MadagascarChameleons . . . . . . . . . 23
UHelsinki EvolutionButteryImmunity . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UHelsinki InsectImmuneEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
ULausanne EvolutionSocialInsects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
ULausanne PhenotypicVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26ULausanne SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ULaval GenomicsBehaviouralManipulation . . . . . . . . 27
ULeuven MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
UMuenster EvolutionGeneTranscription . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UNorthernBritishColumbia FrogEvolution . . . . . . . . . 29
UQueensland TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . .30
UWesternOntario 2 EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . 30
UWisconsin Madison EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . .31
UppsalaU SexualConict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UppsalaU SexualConict CorrectLink . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Vigo Spain EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
iDiv Germany PlantAntagonism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Lille France PopulationGenetics
A PhD position in population genetics and evolutionary
ecology of two threatened amphibian species is available
for three years in the GEPV lab., UMR CNRS 8198
at the University of Lille 1 - Sciences & Technologies
(France).
This project deals with the management and protec-tion of biodiversity in one of the most fragmented land-
scape in France, mostly constituted of man-made habi-
tats: the coal basin of northern France. This area has
been highly disturbed from the start of the last indus-
trial revolution till the cessation of mining activities in
the late eighties. This PhD thesis project will focus
on a comparative analysis of population genetic struc-
ture in two amphibian species classied as endangered
in northern France and recolonising the mining area:
the natterjack toad (Bufo calamita) and the Parsley
frog (Pelodytes punctatus). The patterns of gene ow
and connectivity among populations in these two am-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
phibian species will be investigated to identify relevant
conservation priorities. This project as well as the PhD
position is fully founded by the \R egion Nord-Pas-De-
Calais" (administrative district of the North of France)
and the \Fondation pour la recherche sur la Biodiver-
sit e" (Foundation for Research on Biodiversity).
Applications from highly motivated and outstanding
students with a strong background in empirical and the-
oretical population genetics and good skills in molecu-
lar biology will be considered. The position would suit
an enthusiastic, motivated, and independent graduate
with interest in eld sampling and ecological charac-
terization of habitats, and whose degree has a solid
component in evolutionary biology. Given the exten-
sive sampling planned over all the north of France, the
PhD candidate should have a driving license. The can-
didate will also have to make the link between a sci-
entic institution (University of Lille 1) and various
NGOs (Regional natural reserves and local naturalist
societies. Finally, the candidate should have the ability
to coordinate the diverse project managers in charge of
the extensive sampling that will be carried out during
this project.
Only complete applications (CV, motivation letter -
max. 1 page-, university certicates with ocial grades
in a single pdf) received by 01 July 2013 will be consid-
ered. Contact details and/or recommendation letters
from two referees are also required. The selection cri-
teria will be the excellence of the curriculum vitae and
the adequacy between the professional project of the
candidate and the thesis subject. Candidates will be
short listed before the 15th of July. Final decision will
be made after auditions by the end of July. Applica-
tions should be sent to Jean-Fran cois Arnaud (jean-
francois.arnaud@univ-lille1.fr) and C edric Vanappel-
ghem (cedric.vanappelghem@espaces-naturels.fr). The
selected candidate will obtain the PhD grant for three
years (1684,93 EUR brut salary per month for a full-
time PhD researcher). The advisor will be Jean-
Fran cois Arnaud (Professor, Universit e Lille 1) and the
co-advisor will be C edric Vanappelghem (Conservation
manager, Universit e Lille 1 and Conservatory of nat-
ural areas of Nord of France). The city of Lille is lo-
cated in the north of France and is an attractive and
vibrant cultural city with a high quality of life. Lille is
a city with a central location in Europe, just 35 min-
utes from Bruxelles, one hour from Paris and two hours
from London by high-speed train. More information
about the department is available at the following web-
site: http://gepv.univ-lille1.fr/ and general information
about the city of Lille can be found at the following web-
site: http://www.lilletourism.com/ . PhD's summary:
This PhD's project focuses on a comparative analysis ofpopulation genetic structure in two amphibian species
that are classied as endangered in northern France and
that are recolonizing the mining area: the natterjack
toad and the Parsley frog. The aims of this project
are the following: (1) In a rst step, the candidate will
attempt to compare the levels of genetic diversity and
the patterns of genetic dierentiation within and among
native coastal and inland populations and sites recently
colonized in the coal basin of northern France. Using
neutral microsatellite loci and mitochondrial polymor-
phism, a number of questions can be put forward. Is
there a critical level of fragmentation beyond which the
two species respond dierently in term of mean levels of
genetic dierentiation? Where do the mining area pop-
ulations come from? Do they originate from founder
individuals coming from native populations? If so, are
there signatures of bottlenecks within the mining area?
Are the patterns of inbreeding and/or level of genetic
diversity contrasted between these two areas? Have
these populations been founded by
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig 3
ComputationalBiol
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropol-
ogy (http://www.eva.mpg.de) is spear-heading the re-
search in the evolution of modern humans. The in-
stitute encompasses ve departments working towards
this goal by studying genetics, language, psychology,
anthropology and primate behavior. It is located in
Leipzig, Germany, one of the most livable cities in the
world.
As part of the Department of Evolutionary Genetics,
the groups for Bioinformatics and Genome Analysis are
seeking
3 PhD candidates in Computational Biology (available
immediately).
The groups are interested in the development of compu-
tational methods and software for the analysis of next
generation sequence data. A particular area of interest
is the analysis of modern human, archaic human and
primate genomes. The successful applicant will work in20 EvolDir July 1, 2013
close collaboration with experimental biologists, statis-
ticians and population geneticists to address questions
about recent human evolution. Specic projects will
be dependent on the skills and interests of the candi-
date. The position includes a stipend to cover living
expenses.
Potential topics include: - Analysis of candidate genes
for human traits - Comparative gene expression analysis
- Metagenome assembly from archaic samples - Devel-
opment and analysis of sequence alignment and geno-
typing algorithms - Methods for identifying positive se-
lection - Population genomics analyses
The candidate should have experience with at least
one programming language (preferably perl, python
or C++). Previous experience with large biological
datasets and advanced statistical analyses would be an
advantage. We seek individuals that are highly self-
motivated, able to work independently and to collab-
orate closely and eectively with other members in a
research team.
Candidates with experience in molecular evolution, ge-
netics, computation biology or computer science are in-
vited to apply with: - Statement of interest - CV - At
least 1 reference - Masters degree
Questions and applications please by email to:
kelso@eva.mpg.de or pruefer@eva.mpg.de
Bioinformatics Group: http://www.eva.mpg.de/-
genetics/bioinformatics/overview.html Genomes
Group: http://www.eva.mpg.de/genetics/genomes/-
overview.html Kay Pruefer <pruefer@eva.mpg.de >
Kay Pruefer <pruefer@eva.mpg.de >
MonashU MitochondrialEvolution
PhD top-up scholarship available for project in mito-
chondrial evolutionary ecology / genomics.
An opportunity - and top-up scholarship paid over three
years - is available for a PhD position in the research
group of Dr Damian Dowling at Monash University,
to work on the evolutionary processes shaping mito-
chondrial genome evolution and mitochondrial-nuclear
coadaptation.
Energy production - life's most important biological
process - is encoded by genes dispersed over two obli-
gate genomes - mitochondrial and nuclear. These genes
must interact closely to ensure mitochondrial, hence or-
ganismal functionality. Hence, we expect strong selec-tion to optimize mitochondrial-nuclear coadaptation.
However, due to fundamental genetic dierences be-
tween the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes, there
is considerable scope for evolutionary conicts to arise
between the two genomes, the dynamics of which could
modify the evolution of life histories.
The project is inter-disciplinary, and grounded in fun-
damental principles of evolutionary ecology and ge-
nomics. The successful applicant will be familiar with
basic evolutionary concepts, understand the core tenets
of experimental design, and have strong quantitative
skills. Some expertise in evolutionary genomics is de-
sirable, but not essential.
The top-up scholarship will supplement a scholarship
for doctoral study, which the successful applicant must
apply for through Monash (Australian Postgraduate
Award or Monash University PhD scholarship). Out-
standing Australian or international students who have
completed a four year undergraduate degree have an
excellent chance of obtaining such scholarships. The
tax-free 2013 rate of a scholarship is A$24 653, and the
top up will add an extra $5,000 to this amount).
The position includes funding for international and na-
tional conference visits, and for all research costs.
The deadline for scholarship applications at Monash
University is 31st October 2013.
Interested students should contact
damian.dowling@monash.edu and attach a CV,
academic transcript, contact details of two academic
referees, and a brief description of their research
interests.
For further information on these scholarships
and Monash application procedures, please
visit http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/-
biological-sciences/postgrad/ For further infor-
mation on the research group of Damian Dowl-
ing, visit http://www.damiandowlinglab.com
damian.dowling@monash.edu
SalfordU EvolutionaryBiol
We would like to draw attention to the initiative that
academics at Salford University's School of Environ-
ment & Life Sciences have set up for the \Science with-
out Borders" program of the Brazilian government.
We have tailored over 50 PhD projects, across the broadJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
spectrum of our School's research areas, many of which
have a strong evolutionary and conservation biology
slant.
For detailed information, please visit the page:
http://www.salford.ac.uk/environment-life-sciences/-
research/postgraduate-research thank you.
Stefano.
http://www.salford.ac.uk/environment-life-
sciences/els-academics/stefano-mariani http:/-
/hub.salford.ac.uk/bicome/2013/01/22/stefano-
mariani/ Researcher.ID: A-2964-2012
Mariani Stefano <S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk >
Tulsa Oklahoma EvolutionBedBugs
Graduate research opportunity to study the molecular
ecology of bed bugs. Department of Biological Sciences
- University of Tulsa
A graduate student at the M.S/Ph.D level (3 year) is
sought to work with Dr. Warren Booth in the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences at The University of Tulsa,
Oklahoma. The successful applicant will develop a the-
sis research project focused on the evolutionary dynam-
ics and population structure of the bed bug (Cimex lec-
tularius) in the South Central U.S.
The study aims to examine the following objectives: in-
festation dynamics, population genetic structure, dis-
persal patterns, inbreeding dynamics, population dif-
ferentiation, and patterns of insecticide resistance in
bed bugs. Research will primarily focus on populations
within Oklahoma and its 6 adjacent states. This re-
search will be addressed using microsatellite markers,
previously developed by the P.I., mtDNA and nDNA
sequencing, and potentially RADseq.
Applicants for this position should have a strong
background in population genetics, molecular ecology,
evolutionary biology, or ecology, be willing to under-
take eld research to collect samples (if required),
and meet the admission requirements for the De-
partment of Biological Sciences graduate program.
(http://www.utulsa.edu/academics/colleges/college-
of-engineering-and-natural-sciences/departments-
and-schools/Department-of-Biological-Science.aspx).
Previous lab experience would be benecial.
Applications should include the following: 1) A letter of
interest (not exceeding two pages). 2) A curriculum vi-tae. 3) Names and email addresses for at least two aca-
demics/researchers willing to provide a letter of recom-
mendation 4) Copies of undergraduate/graduate tran-
scripts 5) Electronic copies of published manuscripts, if
any.
For more information about this opportunity, contact
Dr. Booth (warren-booth@utulsa.edu). Anticipated
start date is mid-August 2013, however this may be de-
layed if required. Anticipated annual stipend is $19,000
and includes tuition and medical
Additional information regarding our research can be
found at my current departmental webpage: Booth
- http://www.utulsa.edu/academics/colleges/college-
of-engineering-and-natural-sciences/departments-
and-schools/Department-of-Biological-Science/Our-
Faculty-and-Sta/B/Warren%20Booth.aspx Dr.
Warren Booth Assistant Professor of Molecular Ecol-
ogy Department of Biological Sciences University of
Tulsa 315 Oliphant Hall Tulsa, OK 74104
Tel. (918) 631-3421 - Oce (918) 631-3136
- Lab Web site < http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-
of-Biological-Science/Our-Faculty-and-Sta/B/-
Warren%20Booth.aspx >
\Booth, Warren" <warren-booth@utulsa.edu >
UAberdeen ReproductiveSuccess
PhD position in evolutionary ecology at the UNiversity
of Aberdeen Title:?Individual variation in age-specic
reproductive success and survival in wild yellow-bellied
marmots?
Understanding the causes and consequences of senes-
cence, dened as declines in reproductive success and
survival in old age, is a key but challenging aim in evo-
lutionary ecology. It has recently been realised that the
magnitude and relative timing of senescence can vary
among individual population members, and that quan-
tifying such individual variation is key to understand-
ing the ecological and evolutionary causes and conse-
quences of senescence.
This project will use 52 years of data from a wild pop-
ulation of yellow bellied marmots, where individuals
have been marked, weighed and observed from birth to
death, to quantify individual variation in survival and
reproduction during late life, and to explore the quan-22 EvolDir July 1, 2013
titative genetic basis of and life-history consequences of
this variation.
The student will be based within the dynamic Ecology
research group at the University of Aberdeen. They
will contribute to data collection through 2 summers
of eldwork at the Rocky Mountain Biological Labo-
ratory, Colorado, USA, and then apply sophisticated
statistical analyses to the long-term data. Full training
in eldwork and data analysis will be provided, pro-
viding a broad range of necessary skills for ecological
research.
The PhD will be supervised by Dr Julien Martin
(www.abdn.ac.uk/stapages/julienmartin), Dr Jane
Reid (www.abdn.ac.uk/stapages/jane.reid) and
Dr Daniel Blumstein (www.eeb.ucla.edu/Faculty/-
Blumstein/).
The PhD will start in October 2013 (but later start-
ing would be considered). It will be funded by a NERC
studentship (limited to UK nationals and UK residents)
for 3.5 years.
For further enquiries about the project, please email me
at julienmartin@abdn.ac.uk
To apply, apply online on the university website (http:/-
/www.abdn.ac.uk/postgraduate/apply.php) and send
me an email. You should select a Degree of Doctor
of Philosophy in Marine Biology, to ensure that your
application is passed to the correct College for process-
ing.
The closing date for applications is 17 July 2013.
Dr. Julien Martin University of Aberdeen School of
Biological Sciences julienmartin@abdn.ac.uk
\Martin, Julien" <julienmartin@abdn.ac.uk >
UCanberra 2 InvasiveFish
eDNA surveillance for multiple high risk invasive sh;
2 PhD scholarships
Invasive shes are a major threat to native species and
ecological communities, nationally and internationally.
Early detection of such shes while they are still rare is
the key to eradication success but is problematic using
conventional sampling.
We seek two PhD students with molecular skills to use
advanced genomic approaches, such as next generation
sequencing, to develop species-specic markers for keyaquatic pest species. eDNA techniques will be devel-
oped to determine low-density detection probabilities
and to evaluate DNA degradation under varying con-
ditions (e.g. changes in temperature or UV exposure)
with the aim of improving the technology1s manage-
ment application. eDNA detection will be utilised in
the eld to identify low-density populations of invasives
to identify invasion fronts and to conrm recent eradi-
cation eorts.
The overall project is funded via the multi-
agency Invasive Animal Cooperative Research Centre
(www.invasiveanimals.com). The PhD students would
be based within the Wildlife Genetics Laboratory, Insti-
tute of Applied Ecology, University of Canberra, Can-
berra ACT, Australia For more details contact either:
Dr Dianne Gleeson: Dianne.Gleeson@canberra.edu.au
Dr Elise Furlan: Elise.Furlan@canberra.edu.au
Applications & further information on PhD schol-
arships: www.invasiveanimals.com/phd-scholarship-
applications Dianne Gleeson PhD jPopulation Genet-
icsjPhone: +61 2 62012237 jCell: +61 424221214 j
Institute for Applied Ecology jUniversity of Can-
berrajBruce ACT AUSTRALIA jemail: Di-
anne.Gleeson@canberra.edu.au
\Dianne.Gleeson" <Dianne.Gleeson@canberra.edu.au >
UCollegeLondon Bioinformatics
Genomics
PhD opportunity: Comparative Genomics of Xeno-
turbella and the Acoelomorph atworms.
Application Deadline: 30 June 2013
The Telford Lab in the Department of Genetics Evo-
lution and Environment, University College London is
seeking a PhD student to join a team funded by an
ERC Advanced Award.
The project aims to study the morphology, embryol-
ogy and genetics of the Xenacoelomorpha (Xenoturbel-
lida and Acoelomorpha) - a newly identied phylum
of worms that have (contentiously) been linked to the
deuterostomes.
The Doctoral Student will contribute to an analysis of
the genomes and transcriptomes of several species of
Xenacoelomorpha and will integrate their ndings with
parallel studies of the morphology, ultrastructure and
embryology of these animals.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
The successful applicant will be exposed to a vivid,
collaborative scientic environment and a broad
range of advanced bioinformatics techniques. The
project will involve sequencing and assembly of
genomes/transcriptomes, automatic gene prediction
and genome annotation and comparative/evolutionary
analyses of animal genomes
Applicants are required to have a strong background in
computing/ bioinformatics and an interest in evolution-
ary biology. The position is available from September
2013.
For further information regarding the position and sci-
entic content of the project please contact the Group
Leader, Prof. Max Telford (email m.telford@ucl.ac.uk).
Written applications in English should include a C.V.,
summary of educational and work experience, state-
ment describing your scientic interests and contact
information for two references. Applications can be
mailed to: Prof Max Telford, Dept GEE, University
College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT,
UK. Application deadline 30 June 2013.
Applications by e-mail only will NOT be considered.
Apologies for cross-posting
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department of
Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University
College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street,
London WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679
2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096
https://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/gee-sta/academic-sta/-
index/max-telford a new open access journal
EvoDevo: http://www.evodevojournal.com/ Telford
& Littlewood: Animal Evolution. OUP <http:/-
/ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/9780199570300.do
>
Software to align Nucleotide sequence according
to Amino Acid translation TranslatorX <http://-
www.translatorx.co.uk >
Files and software for downloading: <
http://web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-
Downloads.html >
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis. Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y
structure data in rRNA phylogenetic analyses. MtZoa
and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution matrices
Hacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
Xenoturbella You Tube video < http://-
uk.youtube.com/watch?v=3DyJXNcoxL2Xs >
The Linnean Society of London <http://-
www.linnean.org/ >m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
UCollege London
MadagascarChameleons
Institution: University College London
Dept/School/Faculty: Department of Genetics, Evolu-
tion and Environment
PhD Supervisors: Dr. Richard Pearson (UCL) and Dr
Mark Wilkinson (NHM)
Application Deadline: 15 July 2013
Funding Availability: Funded PhD Project (Euro-
pean/UK Students Only)
This PhD project will be jointly funded by UCL and
the Natural History Museum.
PhD opportunity in Biodiversity, Ecology & Evolution
Project title: Niche conservatism among chameleons in
Madagascar
UCLs Centre for Biodiversity and Environment Re-
search, and the Natural History Museum, invite appli-
cants for a PhD studentship to study ecological niche
conservatism among chameleons in Madagascar. Niche
conservatism (NC) can be dened as the retention of
niche-related ecological traits over time. NC has been
shown to be of fundamental importance for address-
ing a wide range of questions, including concerning
species richness patterns, invasive species, speciation
processes, ecosystem function, and responses to global
climate change. Despite this, there remains much de-
bate as to how frequently and under what circum-
stances NC occurs, a problem confounded by uncer-
tainty over which of several recently proposed compu-
tational methods are most appropriate for testing for
conservatism. This PhD project will focus on the de-
velopment and testing of methods for assessing NC,
including GIS-based ecological niche models, and will
undertake a detailed study of phylogenetic niche con-
servatism among chameleons in Madagascar, for which
novel datasets are becoming available.
The project will be primarily desk-based (no eldwork)
and will provide advanced training in the use of Geo-
graphic Information Systems, ecological modeling, and
remote sensing to address fundamental questions in
ecology, evolution, and biodiversity conservation, as
well as a grounding in reptile taxonomy. The project
will best suit a student with keen interest and pro-24 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ciency in computational approaches (including pro-
gramming/scripting) and training in ecological and evo-
lutionary theory. The project is part of an exciting col-
laboration between UCLs Centre for Biodiversity and
Environment Research and the Natural History Mu-
seum, and the successful candidate will benet from
training and research opportunities at both institu-
tions. The student will also benet from the input of
international collaborator Dr. Chris Raxworthy of the
American Museum of Natural History.
Applicants must be UK/EU nationals and have at least
a 2:1 (Hons) degree. Start date is September 2013 or
up to six months after.
Application procedure: Please send a full academic CV,
contact details for two referees, and a covering letter (up
to 2 pages) electronically by email to CBER@ucl.ac.uk
no later than 15 July 2013. Please also send any infor-
mal enquiries to this address.
Mark Wilkinson <M.Wilkinson@nhm.ac.uk >
UHelsinki
EvolutionButteryImmunity
PHD STUDENT POSITION IN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION OF IMMUNE DEFENCE IN A BUT-
TERFLY METAPOPULATION AT THE UNIVER-
SITY OF HELSINKI
Applications are invited for a PhD fellowship to
study the interplay between ecology and genet-
ics in shaping immune defence in natural butter-
y (meta)population. The project is funded by
the Kone Foundation (http://www.koneensaatio.//-
tiivistelmaet/#Saastamoinen: in Finnish only) Moti-
vated students with a MSc degree in ecology, evolution-
ary biology or molecular biology (or other related elds)
are encouraged to apply. Prior expertise in experimen-
tal design, statistical analysis or laboratory work are a
bonus but your most important assets are enthusiasm
for research, motivation to learn new things, and ability
to work independently while being an active member of
a research team.
The project is centered within a larger study of the
ecological processes and the underlying genetic mecha-
nisms that allow the Glanville fritillary buttery (Meli-
taea cinxia) to cope with environmental challenges in
the wild. This particular project will focus on the im-
mune defence. In your project you will ask what arethe signicance of encapsulation response in terms of
disease and parasitism resistance, how does it relate
to other immunological assays, and if between individ-
ual variation inuenced by population dynamics? In
practice, you will carry out eld work in the ~Aland Is-
lands archipelago (SW Finland) and conduct experi-
mental work in the laboratory and under semi natural
eld conditions. There is also potential to use recently
developed genomic tools to identify genes involved in
immune defence. You are expected to present your
ndings in scientic meetings and workshops, as well
as prepare publications for international scientic jour-
nals.
The research group of Dr Marjo Saastamoinen is part
of the Metapopulation Research Group, Centre of Ex-
cellence appointed by the Academy of Finland, where
you'll nd a wide range of expertise in ecological and
evolutionary questions within a spatial framework.
Please send your application to
marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki. by 7 June 2013.
Attach a CV (with publications included), a copy
of your transcript records (= printout of the courses
you've completed during your MSc), contact details
of two references (e.g. MSc thesis supervisor), and
a letter (MAX 1 page) with a description of your
researcher interests and why you would be a suitable
candidate for the project.
The work is scheduled to start in August 2013. The
Phd student will receive a personal researcher grant
(2100 per month, 25200 annually). The Kone Foun-
dation grants funding one year at the time, so funding
for the successive years need to be applied.
For more information, please contact Dr Marjo
Saastamoinen (marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.) and
visit the website at (https://tuhat.halvi.helsinki./-
portal/en/persons/marjo-anna-kaarina-%280d792de9-
7077-4683-8e2b-4e15b5e9620d%29.htm). For infor-
mation on the University of Helsinki, please visit:
http://www.helsinki./university/index.html Marjo
Saastamoinen, PhD Metapopulation Research Group
Department of Biological Sciences PO Box 65 (Vi-
ikinkaari 1) FI-00014 University of Helsinki FINLAND
Phone +358 9 191 57741
marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.
UHelsinki InsectImmuneEvolutionJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
PhD position in ecological and evolutionary immunol-
ogy, Jyv askyl a Finland
We are looking for a doctoral candidate to work on eco-
logical and evolutionary immunology of insects.
We study the mechanistic trade-os between various
stress responses, and how environmental variation af-
fects an organism's capacity to ght o infections. Ma-
ternal and paternal eects on trans-generational prim-
ing of immunity are of special interest. There is in-
creasing evidence that epigenetic mechanisms mediate
between environmental factors and phenotypic adap-
tations. Trans-generational epigenetic inheritance, al-
though still poorly understood, is of great importance
as it may help to understand how environment aects
innate immunity against pathogens. It can be predicted
that organisms can cope better with local, \familiar"
stressors and are therefore also better able to ght o
the diseases caused by \familiar" pathogens. At the
same time, organisms should be less well adapted to
foreign, novel pathogens even if those are closely re-
lated to the local pathogens.
As a part of this research project the candidate will use
the wood tiger moth Parasemia plantaginis to study the
host-parasite interaction focusing on how the immune
system performs against local pathogens and against
cross-infections with novel microorganisms. The posi-
tion suits an enthusiastic, motivated, and independent
graduate whose degree has strong components of en-
tomology, molecular biology and ecology. Experience
with molecular techniques (e.g. qPCR, enzyme assays),
experimental evolution, and dierent insect species and
microbes is an advantage. The candidate will work as
part of a team developing new techniques, carrying out
experiments and collecting and analyzing data. The
candidate will also be able to work independently, and
s/he will have the option to lead small projects which
could involve supervising undergraduate students.
The position is based at the Centre of Excellence in
Biological Interactions at the University of Jyv askyl a,
a cutting-edge research community with many oppor-
tunities for collaborations world-wide. The candidate
will be supervised by Dr. Dalial Freitak and Prof. Jo-
hanna Mappes. For additional information please con-
tact Dalial.Freitak@helsinki. Applications including a
CV, a letter of motivation and contact details of two
references should be addressed and sent to Dr. Dalial
Freitak, Dalial.Freitak@helsinki.. The closing date is
19 July 2013. The position is available immediately.
Dr. Dalial Freitak Postdoctoral researcher University
of Helsinki Centre of Excellence in Biological interac-
tions Department of Biosciences Antzz Viikinkaari 1,
Biocenter 3 P.O.Box 65, FI-00014 Helsinki. Finlandphone: +358-(0)9 191 57812 email: dalial.freitak (at)
helsinki. web site: www.helsinki./science/ants dfre-
itak@mappi.helsinki.
ULausanne EvolutionSocialInsects
PhD position: communication and decision-making in
social insects, University of Lausanne (Switzerland)
We invite applications for a 3-year SNSF (Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation) funded PhD position at the
University of Lausanne, Switzerland. We are looking
for a highly motivated student to study communica-
tion, learning and decision-making in ants and bees. In
many social insect species, workers communicate about
protable food sources or nest-sites. Honeybees, for
example, use the waggle dance to direct nest-mates
to protable resources. Many ants and tropical bees
use pheromone trails. However, not all species com-
municate about foraging sites and even in species with
communication foragers often search for food indepen-
dently. The project investigates the circumstances that
favour dierent information-use strategies and explores
the relationship between exible individual foraging
strategies and colony tness. The research will include
experimental work in and around Lausanne, with a pos-
sibility to perform eld work in Brazil and/or develop
simulation models. The main study animals are honey-
bees, ants and stingless bees.
We are looking for a candidate with a Masters degree
(or equivalent) in Biology and a strong background in
behaviour, ecology or evolution. Good English skills
and an ability to work independently are important.
Experience with social insects, statistical or modelling
methods and a basic knowledge of French are helpful
but not a requirement.
Supervisors and laboratory: Dr. Christoph Gr uter
(principal supervisor) & Prof. Laurent Keller, Labo-
ratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Ecology of Social
Life, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.
Web Sites: www.socialinsect-research.com,
www.unil.ch/dee/page6763.html How to apply:
applications include (1) a one-page cover letter describ-
ing your motivation, previous research activities and
current research interests, (2) a CV, (3) two reference
letters and (4) publications (if existing; e.g. MSc the-
sis). Send all documents except the publications in a
single pdf le. Applications must be written in English
and should be sent to christophgrueter77@gmail.com26 EvolDir July 1, 2013
before the 15th July 2013. Earliest possible start date
is the 1st of September 2013.
Informal enquiries: christophgrueter77@gmail.com
Dr. Christoph Grueter University of S~ ao Paulo Facul-
dade de Filosoa Ci^ encias e Letras de Ribeir~ ao Preto
Departamento de Biologia Av. Bandeirantes, 3900
14040-901 - Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil Tel: 0055 16
3602 3815 Website: www.socialinsect-research.com
Christoph Grueter <C.Grueter@sussex.ac.uk >
ULausanne PhenotypicVariation
University of Lausanne, Department of Ecology and
Evolution, Building Biophore, 1015 Lausanne, Switzer-
land
Supervisor: Prof. Alexandre Roulin Email: Alexan-
dre.Roulin@unil.ch
The evolution and maintenance of phenotypic varia-
tion is a central question in evolutionary biology. A
commonly suggested mechanism is local adaptation,
whereby dierent phenotypes are adapted to alterna-
tive environmental conditions. Ecological parameters
vary in space, and the resulting heterogeneity of selec-
tive forces can drive adaptive population divergence.
Because at the scale of a population variation in eco-
logical factors is usually limited, the study of adap-
tive phenotypic evolution would be easier if organisms
can be studied at a much larger scale. In the present
PhD project, we propose to investigate the evolution
of a highly variable phenotypic trait (pigmentation) in
the barn owl (Tyto alba). This cosmopolite species is
found in North, Central and South America, Africa,
Europe, Asia and Oceania including many islands. We
count 36 barn owl subspecies and 6 species. The aim
is to examine the population genetics of this species at
the worldwide scale in order to understand how this
species spread and examine the relative role of neu-
tral and adaptive processes involved in the evolution
of phenotypic diversity within and between popula-
tions/subspecies/species. This project has the poten-
tial to help understand the build-up of reproductive
isolation and the processes leading to speciation.
Prof. Alexandre Roulin Department of Ecology & Evo-
lution Building Biophore University of Lausanne CH-
1015 Lausanne Switzerland
Desk 3202 Tel: 0041 21 692 41 89 Mobile: 0041
79 686 08 64 Fax: 0041 21 692 41 65 Web-site: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7006.html alexan-
dre.roulin@unil.ch
ULausanne SocialEvolution
1 PhD position: Sibling negotiation, communication
network, social rules University of Lausanne, Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution
We are looking for one PhD student to work on sibling
negotiation. Animal communication is often studied
by averaging the performance of each participant of a
social network, while we expect that individuals adjust
their investment in signalling at each moment according
to their counterparts and to their likelihood of winning
the contest. Using the barn owl as a model species,
we want to tackle this issue and study experimentally
the dynamics of animal communication. How individ-
ual siblings that vocally negotiate prey items invest in
the vocal contest: with which sibling do they interact,
how, and do the ways they interact with siblings aect
their ability to monopolise the food resource? To go
further, as social rules that ultimately determine food
share have been found, what happens if some siblings
do not follow these rules? Is there a social control that
prevents cheaters to emerge?
The student will take part in natural population mon-
itoring, setting up and follow up of experiments in
laboratory, behavioural observations, acoustic analyses,
and elaboration of acoustic tools in collaboration with
acousticians.
Eligibility: Dynamic and motivated student holding a
master in ecology and or related disciplines. The ap-
plicant is expected to have a good knowledge (spoken
and written) of the English language. Driving license
is needed. The duration of the PhD training period is
three full years.
Applications should comprise a CV, a letter explaining
the motivation and one or two letters of reference The
position will be lled as soon as a suitable candidate is
found.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a well-
funded institution, one of the largest and most reputed
departments in this eld. We have a dynamic doctoral
school and a doctoral program for the dierent Swiss
universities.
Contact: University of Lausanne, Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution, Building Biophore, 1015 Lausanne,July 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
Switzerland
Supervisors Prof. Alexandre Roulin, Alexan-
dre.Roulin@unil.ch Dr. Am elie Dreiss,
Amelie.Dreiss@unil.ch
Prof. Alexandre Roulin Department of Ecology & Evo-
lution Building Biophore University of Lausanne CH-
1015 Lausanne Switzerland
Desk 3202 Tel: 0041 21 692 41 89 Mobile: 0041
79 686 08 64 Fax: 0041 21 692 41 65 Web-
site: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7006.html alexan-
dre.roulin@unil.ch
ULaval
GenomicsBehaviouralManipulation
PHD POSITION: GENOMIC AND PROTEOMIC
MECHANISMS OF BEHAVIOURAL TAKE-OVER
OF STICKLEBACKS BY A PARASITIC FLAT-
WORM
We are looking for a motivated student to join our team
to work on the ecological genomics of host-parasite
interactions at UNIVERSIT E LAVAL, Quebec City,
Canada. Our labs are part of the Biology Department
and are located in the INSTITUTE OF INTEGRA-
TIVE AND SYSTEMS BIOLOGY. The PhD position
oered is part of a FRQNT- Equipe project (Quebec,
Canada) to study the interaction between the genomes
of the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus)
and of its atworm parasite (Schistocephalus solidus).
The project leaders are Dr. Nadia AUBIN-HORTH
(behavioural genomics and neuroendocrinology) & Dr.
Christian LANDRY (bioinformatics, evolutionary ge-
nomics and proteomics). We work in collaboration with
Dr. Iain BARBER (evolution of host-parasite interac-
tions and their consequences) from University of Leices-
ter.
PROJECT: Sticklebacks parasitized by the cestod at-
worm do not show the normal behavioural response to
predation risk and, as a consequence, are more fre-
quently captured by their bird predator. These be-
haviour modications are often presented as adapta-
tions of the parasite to enhance transmission rates to
its nal bird host in order to complete its life cycle,
as the changes in stickleback behaviour occur speci-
cally when the atworm is ready to mature in its nal
host, suggesting a stage-specic active manipulation by
the parasite. However, we know very little about themolecular mechanisms that underlie this host-parasite
interaction. Our team aims to answer questions about
the molecular changes happening in the host and the
parasite and how their genomes interact.
Motivated students with a MSc degree in life sciences
(ecology, evolution, molecular biology or other related
elds) are encouraged to apply. A strong interest for an
INTEGRATIVE APPROACH, combining novel tools
in GENOMICS, PROTEOMICS and BIOINFORMAT-
ICS with BEHAVIOURAL ASSAYS and pharmaco-
logical manipulation and working actively in a team
is a must. Prior experience in animal behaviour, en-
docrinology, molecular biology, genomics, proteomics,
bioinformatics or statistical analysis is an advantage.
A PhD fellowship is available for 3 years for the chosen
candidate.
To apply, please send an email including a CV, a letter
describing your research experience in link with the
project and your research interest, your diplomas and
transcripts, and the names and email addresses of 3 ref-
erences (including your M.Sc. Advisor). Applications
will be accepted until July 15, 2013 or until a candidate
is selected. The position will start in September 2013.
For more information about the position, please feel
free to contact the head of the team, Dr. Nadia
Aubin-Horth (Nadia.Aubin-Horth@bio.ulaval.ca).
For more information about the labs, see: http:/-
/wikiaubinhorth.ibis.ulaval.ca/Main Page http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab/en/pmwiki.php Nadia
Aubin-Horth Associate professor Biology Department
Institute of Integrative and Systems Biology Laval
University Quebec City (QC) G1V 0A6 Canada
Aubin-Horth Nadia <Nadia.Aubin-
Horth@bio.ulaval.ca >
ULeuven MarineEvolution
University of Leuven - PhD studentship in Biological
Sciences on Connectivity in marine atsh populations
The Laboratory of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics (LBEG: http://bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/lbeg), De-
partment of Biology, University of Leuven, Leuven, B
invites applications for a 4-year PhD studentship re-
cently awarded by the Research Foundation Vlaanderen
and linked to the project FISHCONNECT.
Background: The primary focus of the research project
FISHCONNECT is to disentangle the inuence of reg-28 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ulatory (oceanographic) and adaptive (biological) fac-
tors on connectivity in atsh through an integrated
empirical and modeling approach.
Aims and objectives: The aim of the PhD project is
to trace back the postlarval stages of four atshes to
the spawning grounds with genetic and demographic
tracing methods. At the moment a rst PhD fellow has
started work on the ecology and demography of postlar-
val atsh. A third PhD fellow who will further develop
an integrated hydrodynamical-biological model is also
being recruited (see www.mumm.ac.be). We are look-
ing for a multidisciplinary fellow with a background and
interest in eld and lab-based sh(eries) biology and
genetics combining at least two of the following topics
(evolution, population genomics, sh biology, model-
ing). The successful candidate will be involved with
ship and shore based eldwork, data collection, molec-
ular/genetic methodology, morphometric and genetic
data analysis and manuscript writing.
Requirements and elegibility: Applicants are required
to hold a MSc in Biological sciences, bio-engineering
or related elds and excellent study records. The PhD
fellow will work collaboratively with two other PhD fel-
lows, exchanging ideas and skills during the course of
the project. The PhD fellow will work in team with
a senior scientist, a postdoc and graduate students at
the KU Leuven. The project requires skills in (molecu-
lar) biology, biostatistics, modeling, data banking and
IT. In addition to the primary research responsibilities,
duties will include assisting and mentoring undergrad-
uate students, some teaching in Bachelor courses and
the organization and management of large datasets.
Host details: Leuven is a pleasant and high-quality
medium-sized town. The KU Leuven, founded in 1425
is the largest and most research intensive university of
Belgium. LBEG focuses on the neutral and adaptive
evolution of sh and their parasites.
Relevant papers include
Lacroix G., Maes G.E., Bolle L.J., Volckaert F.A.M.
(2013) Modelling dispersal dynamics of the early life
stages of a marine atsh (Solea solea L.). Journal of
Sea Research 75: 00-00;
Nielsen E.E., Cariani A. Mac Aoidh E., Maes G.E.,
... , Diopere E., Volckaert F.A.M. Waples R.S., Fish-
PopTrace consortium, Carvalho G.R., (2012) Gene-
associated markers provide tools for tackling IUU sh-
ing and false eco-certication. Nature Communications
3:851;
Volckaert F.A.M. (2012) (Flat)sh stocks in an ecosys-
tem and evolutionary perspective. Journal of Sea Re-
search 75: 19-32;Cuveliers E.L., Volckaert F.A.M., Rijnsdorp A.D., Lar-
museau M.H.D., Maes G.E. (2011). Temporal ge-
netic stability and high eective population size de-
spite sheries-induced life-history trait evolution in the
North Sea sole. Molecular Ecology 20: 3555-3568.
Interested candidates should e-mail Prof. Filip Volck-
aert (lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be) for informal in-
quiries. Please apply formally at the KU Leuven Aren-
berg Doctoral School https://phd.kuleuven.be/set with
a motivation letter (past research projects and inter-
ests), study transcript, two letters of reference and CV
by 08 July 2013. Interviews are scheduled in the week
of 15 July 2013. The expected start is 1 September
2013.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
UMuenster
EvolutionGeneTranscription
PhD position Evolution of gene transcription in Ara-
bidopsis , Lab Juliette de Meaux, M unster, Germany
I am looking for a highly motivated PhD student to
study the evolution of cis-regulatory DNA in the genus
Arabidopsis.
Our research seeks to reconstruct the recent history of
adaptive molecular variation in the genus Arabidopsis.
We are especially interested in the accurate character-
ization of adaptively relevant variation. Our ultimate
goal is to understand the molecular basis of adapta-
tion in plants. In this framework, the project of the
PhD student will be to determine the role of regulatory
evolution in phenotypic adaptation, via the combined
analysis of functional and nucleotide variation in gene
expression in the Arabidopsis genus. The project will
entail bioinformatics and genomics approach and the
outcome will be experimentally validated.
Applicants must hold a Diploma/Master degree and
prove advanced education in genomics, bioinformatics
or population genetics. Prociency in English is re-
quired. Applications of women are specially invited; in
the case of similar qualications, competence and spe-
cic achievements, women will be considered on pref-
erential terms, within the framework of the legal possi-
bilities. Handicapped candidates with equivalent qual-
ications will be given preference. Applications (CV,
letter of motivation, and contact of two referees) should
be sent to juliette.de.meaux@uni-muenster.de. The ex-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
amination of applications will begin immediately until
the position is lled. The position is for three years.
Starting date can be adjusted to your availability.
For more information on our research, refer to our web-
site (http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/plantmolevol).
The IEB in M unster is unique in Germany (http://-
ieb.uni-muenster.de/). It runs the M unster Graduate
School of Evolution which is at the forefront of ed-
ucation and research in diverse sectors of evolution-
ary biology, from evolutionary ecology to phylogenet-
ics, population genetics and evolutionary bioinformat-
ics (http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/mgse/). This interdis-
ciplinary environment promises to bring you a highly
interactive environment in which both your theoretical
and experimental skills can be harmoniously developed.
M unster is a multi-faceted city. It is a city of science
and learning. M unster, Westphalia's longstanding re-
gional capital, is a young city; one of 7 of its inhabitants
is either studying or employed by university and half of
its inhabitants are below 30 years of age. M unster is a
forerunner in the eld of environment and climate pro-
tection. It is Germany's bicycle metropolis with more
bikes than inhabitants, more than 250 kilometres of bi-
cycle paths and an underground bicycle parking area
in front of the main train station. High-tech and tra-
ditional trade coexist in this city, as well as baroque
noble residences and modern architecture, with a his-
torical city centre and progressive urban development.
M unster guarantees you the highest quality of life!
juliette.de.meaux@uni-muenster.de
UNorthernBritishColumbia
FrogEvolution
Graduate Opportunity (PhD)
Distribution Ecology and Landscape Genetics of
Coastal Tailed Frog
We are recruiting a PhD student to investigate the dis-
tribution ecology of post-metamorphic tailed frogs in
northwestern, British Columbia, Canada. The work
will be conducted in a landscape containing four exper-
imental watersheds, each with three replicated treat-
ments representing forest harvest and retention. We
anticipate methods that incorporate both observational
and genetic data and explain the connectivity of pop-
ulations of tailed frog within and across watersheds.Each treatment site has a permanent installation of di-
rectional pitfall traps and we are successful in using ra-
diotelemetry to locate this species. Given the breadth
of this project and the paucity of research on the ecol-
ogy of post-metamorphic tailed frog, there will be con-
siderable opportunities for students to direct specic
research questions and methods. Results of this study
will improve our understanding of the ecology of tailed
frog and provide guidance for the protection, manage-
ment, and restoration of headwater forests. We expect
direct application of ndings to the development or im-
provement of best management practices to mitigate
the impacts of forest harvesting and linear corridors.
The qualied student will attend classes at the Prince
George campus of the University of Northern BC.
UNBC is a small, but dynamic research intensive uni-
versity (www.unbc.ca). The Prince George area of-
fers abundant outdoor recreation activities. Please
see our website for more information on the Natural
Resources and Environmental Studies Graduate Pro-
gram including degree requirements and expectations
(www.unbc.ca/nres/). Research activities will be con-
ducted at permanent study sites near Terrace, BC. The
the student will be expected to live in Terrace (http://-
www.visitterrace.com/) when collecting eld data (May
to September).
Qualications: This is a challenging, but rewarding
project requiring a range of interests and aptitudes.
Preferably, the successful applicant will have a degree
in biology or ecology. The student should be will-
ing to work in a collaborative environment with mul-
tiple research partners coming from both government
and industry. This study requires intensive eld work
throughout the summer and early fall. Demonstration
of eld-based competencies (e.g., GPS operation, com-
passing, backcountry safety/skills) is an asset as well as
a desire to get dirty and potentially work long hours.
Also, the student should have an interest or experience
in eld ecology, landscape genetics, and GIS.
The successful student should be prepared to spend a
portion of this summer (2013) working at the study
sites with a program start date of September 2013. Re-
search funding for the rst two years of the project will
be conrmed within the next month. We anticipate a
competitive stipend ($25,000) and funding to support
eld and lab activities.
For further information please contact Dr. Chris John-
son, (johnsoch@unbc.ca; 1-250-960-5357;
http://web.unbc.ca/ ~ johnsoch) or Dr. Brent Murray
(murrayb@unbc.ca; 1-250-960-5638;
http://web.unbc.ca/~murrayb).30 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Brent Murray <Brent.Murray@unbc.ca >
UQueensland
TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiol
The newly established evolutionary genetics group of
Jan Engelst adter at The University of Queensland
(Brisbane, Australia) invites applications for a PhD po-
sition in theoretical evolutionary biology. We are inter-
ested in the evolution of sex and recombination, host-
parasite coevolution and the evolution of antibiotic re-
sistance. Dierent PhD projects from these research
areas involving mathematical modelling are available
or can be developed together with the successful can-
didate. For details about our research, see our website
at http://engelstaedterlab.org/ . We are looking for a
motivated student with either a strong background in
evolutionary biology or strong quantitative skills. Ap-
plicants should possess a Bachelor's degree with Hon-
ours, Master of Science, MPhil or equivalent. Candi-
dates with a non-biology degree (mathematics, physics,
computer science) are especially encouraged to apply.
Good communication skills, scientic curiosity and en-
thusiasm for research in evolutionary biology are essen-
tial.
Funding can be obtained through a competitive inter-
national PhD scholarship scheme for overseas students
interested in undertaking PhDs in the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences at The University of Queensland. For more
information about this scholarship scheme as well as
formal requirements for PhD students and The School
of Biological Sciences at UQ, see below.
Interested candidates should send a cover letter describ-
ing their motivation and research interests, CV, copy of
degrees, and contact information for two academic ref-
erences to: j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au.
Jan Engelst adter School of Biological Sciences The Uni-
versity of Queensland Brisbane QLD 4072 Australia
phone: +61 7 336 57959 fax: +61 7 336 51655 http://-
engelstaedterlab.org/ International PhD Scholarships
in Biology at UQ
The School of Biological Sciences is a large and research
intensive unit at the University of Queensland, one of
Australia's most prestigious Universities. The School
has broad expertise across the disciplines of ecology and
evolution, molecular and quantitative genetics, devel-
opmental biology, behaviour, plant and animal phys-iology, and conservation biology. Our research pro-
grams span all scales of biological organisation, from
molecules and cells, to organisms, populations, species
and communities, and take advantage of study ani-
mal and plant systems in a large variety of habitats
(see http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/ for detailed infor-
mation on our research programs). The School is very
pleased to announce a new initiative that has made
available a number of PhD scholarships for talented In-
ternational students who enroll in our PhD program in
2013.
Qualications Applicants should possess a Bache-
lor's degree with Honours, Master of Science, MPhil
or equivalent, and must be accepted into the PhD
program at the University of Queensland. The
UQ Graduate School website provides further in-
formation on the entry requirements for admission
to the PhD program (http://www.uq.edu.au/grad-
school/our-research-degrees).
Remuneration Living stipend (scholarship) of $24,653
per annum for 3 years which is tax free, with the pos-
sibility of a 6 month extension. International students
normally pay international student fees of $32,200 per
year, however individuals successful in gaining one of
these scholarships will also be granted a full tuition-fee
waiver.
The Application Process Interested students should
identify potential supervisors within their research area
of interest (http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/academic-
sta) and contact them to discuss potential projects.
Strong candidates will be invited to apply for entry to
the PhD program, and if accepted into the program
will be considered for the School of Biological Sciences
International Scholarships on a competitive basis.
Enquiries For further information on the application
process please contact the Postgraduate Administration
Ocer Gail Walter gj.walter@uq.edu.au
j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au
UWesternOntario 2
EvolutionaryPhysiology
*Evolutionary Physiology in the cold: 2 PhD stu-
dentships*
Several PhD positions available in the Sinclair lab, De-
partment of Biology, University of Western Ontario.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
1.Evolutionary physiology of insect freeze toler-
ance.This project will use a combination of transcrip-
tomics and physiology to determine the common fac-
tors that allow some insects to withstand internal ice
formation.
2.Overwintering adaptations associated with the north-
ward spread of the invasive land snail /Cepaea
nemoralis/.This project will use a combination of phys-
iology and population genetics to examine evolutionary
change in cold tolerance of an invasive snail whose geo-
graphic range is expanding beyond that predicted from
its native distribution in Europe.In collaboration with
Dr. Annegret Nicolai.
The Sinclair lab is a vibrant, social and diverse group
of individuals dedicated to understanding how winter
drives natural processes.We are question-driven, and
use a wide range of techniques, and interact with a
broad range of collaborators in Canada and abroad.The
Sinclair lab provides an exceptional training environ-
ment, and members have enjoyed success, winning
scholarships, awards... and occasionally even jobs!
The Department of Biology has a large graduate pro-
gramme that provides competitive stipends, exible
start dates, excellent training and sensible times-to-
completion.The University of Western Ontario is lo-
cated in London, Ontario, Canada, and has over
5000 graduate students on a beautiful urban cam-
pus.London, situated mid-way between Detroit and
Toronto, has a population of 450,000, a thriving arts
scene, and all amenities expected for a city its size.
Exceptional students from any nationality are en-
couraged to apply, however, applications from
Canadian citizens and permanent residents are
especially encouraged.For more information, visit
publish.uwo.ca ~bsincla7, or contact Dr. Brent Sinclair,
bsincla7@uwo.ca. Applications should include a cover
letter, CV and unocial copy of an academic transcript
(a scanned version is ne) and should be received by
August 31, 2013.
{
Dr Brent Sinclair Associate Professor, Department of
Biology Biological & Geological Sciences Room 2078
(Lab: Room 2056) University of Western Ontario, 1151
Richmond St N, London, Ontario N6A 5B7
bsincla7@uwo.ca tel: 519-661-2111 ext 83138; Fax 519-
661-3935 http://publish.uwo.ca/ ~ bsincla7/ Come to
ISEPEP5! 12-16 August, 2013, London, ONtario,
Canada http://www.uwo.ca/biology/ISEPEP5/ Brent
Sinclair <bsincla7@uwo.ca >UWisconsin Madison
EvolutionaryGenomics
Ph.D. Positions in Evolutionary Genomics
The research group of John Pool at the University of
Wisconsin - Madison is seeking one or two Ph.D. stu-
dents to start in the Fall 2014 academic year.
A brief summary of our research can be found here:
http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/338 More informa-
tion about the lab is at: http://johnpool.net/ Our
work oers the opportunity to study genetic variation
at the scale of whole genomes. We also use population
genomic data to identify the genetic basis of adaptive
phenotypic evolution within the genetics model species,
Drosophila melanogaster. The Pool lab currently in-
cludes four postdoctoral researchers and six undergrad-
uates. I can oer training in some of the most sought-
after scientic skills in modern evolutionary genomics,
and I can devote ample time to each student's scientic
development.
Interested students should apply (by December
1) to the UW Genetics Ph.D.program: http://-
www.genetics.wisc.edu/node/15 Students typically ro-
tate in three labs during their rst semester before
choosing an advisor. The Genetics program has an es-
pecially strong contingent of faculty with evolutionary
interests, including:
David Baum http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/-
14 Karl Broman http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/-
user/333 Cameron Currie http://-
www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/80 Sean Carroll http:/-
/www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/22 John Doebley
http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/28 Bill Engels
http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/33 Audrey Gasch
http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/37 Chris Hit-
tinger http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/329 Carol
Lee http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/56 Laurence
Loewe http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/316 Bret
Payseur http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/63 Caitlin
Pepperell http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/372
Nicole Perna http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/65
John Pool http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/338
Sushmita Roy http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/373
Don Waller http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/74 A
more complete list of evolution faculty at UW Madison
is available through the J. F. Crow Institute for the32 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Study of Evolution: http://www.evolution.wisc.edu/
Financial support for Genetics PhD students is
available from training grants, research assistantships,
and teaching assistantships (one semester of teaching
is required).
Madison oers an exceptional quality of life in a beau-
tiful natural setting. Downtown and campus are bor-
dered by lakes, and the area includes a number of long
distance bike trails. Madison features diverse art, mu-
sic, and cultural oerings. A great farmers market and
a focus on local food are complemented by a wide range
of international restaurants.
Students with a particular interest in my lab are encour-
aged to contact me before applying: jpool@wisc.edu
John Pool Assistant Professor Laboratory of Genetics
University of Wisconsin-Madison
UppsalaU SexualConict
PHD POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY:
Sex, genes and conict in novel environments
Uppsala University hereby invites applications for a
Postgraduate PhD position in Animal Ecology at the
Department of Ecology and Genetics, Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre (EBC) with a tentative starting date being
October 1st, 2013, or as soon as possible after this date.
BACKGROUND: Males and females have distinct
life styles and experience dierent selection pressures.
These dierences in selection have likely given rise to
many of the striking sexual dimorphisms in life his-
tory, morphology and behaviour observed across animal
taxa. There are however good reasons to believe that,
typically, the evolution of pronounced sex-dierences
is severely constrained by the fact that males and fe-
males share most of their genome. Genes that have net
benets to one sex therefore often inict costs when
expressed in the other. The result is a genetic con-
ict over optimal male and female phenotypes, with
potentially grave and wide-ranging evolutionary con-
sequences. This form of sexual conict is a key fo-
cus of current evolutionary research and is predicted
to be a crucial mechanism maintaining genetic varia-
tion within populations, imposing demographic costs
to natural populations, and setting limits to rates of
adaptation.
OBJECTIVE: The focus of this project is to under-
stand how new mutations and cryptic genetic variationaect male and female phenotypes, and how adaptation
from these sources of genetic variation inuence male
and female evolution and the importance of sexual con-
ict in novel environments. The successful candidate
will utilize insect model systems to perform quantita-
tive genetic breeding designs and/or laboratory evolu-
tion experiments, to estimate genetic architecture and
selection on important tness traits in males and fe-
males. It will also be possible to combine quantitative
genetic data with genome sequence data, to link varia-
tion in male and female phenotypes to variation at the
molecular level. This PhD position forms a part of a
new project on genetic conict, funded by the European
Research Council and the Swedish Research Council.
The entire project employs some 7-8 PhD students and
postdocs, as well as a full time research engineer, a re-
search professor and a se nior PI, and strongly encour-
ages interactions and collaborations within the group.
Dr. David Berger and Prof. G oran Arnqvist will act as
supervisors for the successful applicant.
WORKING PLACE: The Evolutionary Biology Centre
hosts one of the world's largest aggregations of evolu-
tionary biologists, and is a prime research environment
for a wide range of elds in evolutionary biology (see
\http://www.ebc.uu.se/" for more information). The
working atmosphere is very international with English
as our operational language. Our graduate school of-
fers a creative and stimulating environment and of-
fers a rich variety of seminars, journal clubs, courses
and many possibilities to interact with other scholars
and students (see \http://www.ebc.uu.se/education/-
"). Graduate students recently ranked Uppsala Univer-
sity in rst place among all institutions in Europe in the
subject of biology (CHE European ranking). Uppsala
University is the oldest university in Scandinavia and
the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college town with beau-
tiful surroundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm.
ELIGABILITY: The successful candidate should have
a relevant MSc/BSc degree (or equivalent) in biol-
ogy/genetics/ecology.
QUALIFICATIONS: We seek highly motivated candi-
dates with a broad interest in evolutionary biology. Ex-
perience in quantitative and/or population genetics or
in life-history- and sexual selection theory is an advan-
tage. Experience in using statistical software (e.g. R,
SAS, Genstat) is a merit. Because the holder of this
position will collaborate and interact closely with other
members of the group, we will put emphasis on both
independence and ability to collaborate. The applicant
is expected to have a good knowledge (spoken and writ-
ten) of the English language.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
SALARY AND APPOINTMENT: The duration of the
PhD training period is four full years. The success-
ful candidate will be employed on a postgraduate PhD
position (following current agreements, salary is start-
ing at 23.100 and ending at 27.500 SEK/month) which
entitles the holder to full social benets.
FURTHER INFORMATION: please contact
Dr. David Berger (tel. 018-471 6428, email:
david.berger@ebc.uu.se). Union representatives
are Anders Grundstr om, Saco-r adet, phone. +46-
18-4715380; Carin S oderh all, TCO/ST, phone.
+46-18-4711996, Stefan Djurstr om, Seko, phone.
+46-18-4713315.
See also:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU SexualConict
CorrectLink
PHD POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY:
Sex, genes and conict in novel environments
Uppsala University hereby invites applications for a
Postgraduate PhD position in Animal Ecology at the
Department of Ecology and Genetics, Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre (EBC) with a tentative starting date being
October 1st, 2013, or as soon as possible after this date.
BACKGROUND: Males and females have distinct
life styles and experience dierent selection pressures.
These dierences in selection have likely given rise to
many of the striking sexual dimorphisms in life his-
tory, morphology and behaviour observed across animal
taxa. There are however good reasons to believe that,
typically, the evolution of pronounced sex-dierences
is severely constrained by the fact that males and fe-
males share most of their genome. Genes that have net
benets to one sex therefore often inict costs when
expressed in the other. The result is a genetic con-
ict over optimal male and female phenotypes, with
potentially grave and wide-ranging evolutionary con-
sequences. This form of sexual conict is a key fo-
cus of current evolutionary research and is predicted
to be a crucial mechanism maintaining genetic varia-
tion within populations, imposing demographic coststo natural populations, and setting limits to rates of
adaptation.
OBJECTIVE: The focus of this project is to under-
stand how new mutations and cryptic genetic variation
aect male and female phenotypes, and how adaptation
from these sources of genetic variation inuence male
and female evolution and the importance of sexual con-
ict in novel environments. The successful candidate
will utilize insect model systems to perform quantita-
tive genetic breeding designs and/or laboratory evolu-
tion experiments, to estimate genetic architecture and
selection on important tness traits in males and fe-
males. It will also be possible to combine quantitative
genetic data with genome sequence data, to link varia-
tion in male and female phenotypes to variation at the
molecular level. This PhD position forms a part of a
new project on genetic conict, funded by the European
Research Council and the Swedish Research Council.
The entire project employs some 7-8 PhD students and
postdocs, as well as a full time research engineer, a re-
search professor and a senior PI , and strongly encour-
ages interactions and collaborations within the group.
Dr. David Berger and Prof. G oran Arnqvist will act as
supervisors for the successful applicant.
WORKING PLACE: The Evolutionary Biology Centre
hosts one of the world's largest aggregations of evolu-
tionary biologists, and is a prime research environment
for a wide range of elds in evolutionary biology (see
\http://www.ebc.uu.se/" for more information). The
working atmosphere is very international with English
as our operational language. Our graduate school of-
fers a creative and stimulating environment and of-
fers a rich variety of seminars, journal clubs, courses
and many possibilities to interact with other scholars
and students (see \http://www.ebc.uu.se/education/-
"). Graduate students recently ranked Uppsala Univer-
sity in rst place among all institutions in Europe in the
subject of biology (CHE European ranking). Uppsala
University is the oldest university in Scandinavia and
the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college town with beau-
tiful surroundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm.
ELIGIBILITY: The successful candidate should have
a relevant MSc/BSc degree (or equivalent) in biol-
ogy/genetics/ecology.
QUALIFICATIONS: We seek highly motivated candi-
dates with a broad interest in evolutionary biology. Ex-
perience in quantitative and/or population genetics or
in life-history- and sexual selection theory is an advan-
tage. Experience in using statistical software (e.g. R,
SAS, Genstat) is a merit. Because the holder of this
position will collaborate and interact closely with other34 EvolDir July 1, 2013
members of the group, we will put emphasis on both
independence and ability to collaborate. The applicant
is expected to have a good knowledge (spoken and writ-
ten) of the English language.
SALARY AND APPOINTMENT: The duration of the
PhD training period is four full years. The success-
ful candidate will be employed on a postgraduate PhD
position (following current agreements, salary is start-
ing at 23.100 and ending at 27.500 SEK/month) which
entitles the holder to full social benets.
FURTHER INFORMATION: please con-
tact Dr. David Berger (tel. 018-471 6428,
email:david.berger@ebc.uu.se). Union representa-
tives are Anders Grundstr om, Saco-r ~Adet, phone.
+46-18-4715380; Carin S oderh all, TCO/ST, phone.
+46-18-4711996, Stefan Djurstr om, Seko, phone.
+46-18-4713315.
See also:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Vigo Spain EvolutionaryBiol
*Master in Biological Sciences (MBS) at the University
of Vigo, Spain*
We are pleased to announce the launch of the *Mas-
ter in Biological Sciences (MBS) of the University of
Vigo (Spain)* for the *academic year 2013-2014*. The
MBS aims to provide future professionals in biology
with the knowledge, skills and insights they will need
to take on top science-based positions around the world
(academic, research, environmental and biomedical ap-
plications, bioinformatics).
The* ocial language of the MBS is English*. Non-
English speaking students must demonstrate that they
have acquired the minimum language skills to study
the Master. No additional proof is required, although
holding a B1 or equivalent title would be desirable. In
addition, personal interviews with members of the Aca-
demic Commission might be required before admission.
The sta teaching in this master cover a wide range
of areas giving students contact with renowned re-
searchers, specialists in developing professional skillsand practitioners from industry. They all have long-
term teaching experience.
For those students interested in doing a PhD, there
are two Doctorate Programmes linked to the MBS, and
rated as excellent from the Spanish Education Ministry
* *
*Master outline*
The MSc programme comprises *120 ECTS in total
distributed between 2 academic years *(60 ECTS each
one). During the 1st year, students will follow 4 general
courses (*Basic Module, 12 ECTS)* on basic tools for
designing and performing experimental tasks, analysing
results and elaborating conclusions. This will be fol-
lowed by the *Elective Component (42 ECTS) *where
students will have the chance to follow specic tracks:
1. Molecular Biology for Health and Life Sciences 2.
Environmental Sciences 3. Bioinformatics and Compu-
tational Biology 4. Green-Industries Management
The main part of the second year consists of a ma-
jor project (*Mandatory Major Project 48 ECTS*), in
which students will acquire advanced knowledge on dif-
ferent methodologies and techniques under the guid-
ance of experienced experts to full your professional
requirements and possibly to gain a better position on
the job market.
Finally, all students need to carry out a *Master's thesis
(12 credits).*
*APPLICATION for academic year 2013-14*
- First pre-registration period: 28 June to 4 July 2013
- Second pre-registration period: 27 August to 3
September 2013
* *
*DOCUMENTS that must accompany the application
form:*
- DNI, NIE or Passport
- Bachelor's degree diploma
- Brief CV
*CONTACT*
Mar a Jes ~Aos Iglesias Briones (coordinator)
mbriones@uvigo.es
Master in Biological Sciences
Facultad de Biolog a Campus Lagoas-Marcosende Uni-
versidad de Vigo 36310 Vigo, Spain.
*FURTHER INFORMATION*
http://biology.uvigo.es Armando CaballeroJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
<armando@uvigo.es >
iDiv Germany PlantAntagonism
The German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) is one of the seven National Research
Centres funded by the German Research Founda-
tion (DFG). It is located in the city of Leipzig and
jointly hosted by the Martin Luther University Halle-
Wittenberg (MLU), the Friedrich Schiller University
Jena (FSU), the University of Leipzig (UL) and the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ).
It is supported by the Max Planck Society, the Leib-
niz Association, the Klaus Tschira Foundation and the
Free State of Saxony. Its central mission is to promote
theory-driven synthesis and data-driven theory in this
emerging eld. The concept of iDiv encompasses the
detection of biodiversity, understanding its emergence,
exploring its consequences for ecosystem functions and
services, and developing strategies to safeguard biodi-
versity under global change. Embedded in the active
research environment of iDiv, the Young BioDiversity
Research Training Group (yDiv) will be established. Its
goal is to educate a new generation of scientists in trans-
disciplinary biodiversity research, who will have gained
expertise both in experimental as well as theoretical
elds of research.
The University of Leipzig oers the following position:
Doctoral fellowship (initially limited to 3 years, 65 per-
cent of a full-time employment) Salary: Entgeltgruppe
13 TV-L on\The importance of antagonistic interac-
tions for plant species coexistence and ecosystem func-
tioning"
Topic/job description:
*conduct ecological eld experiments in grassland
ecosystems (manipulate plant species abundance, insect
herbivory, and pathogen attack) to study mechanisms
of plant species coexistence * carry out greenhouse ex-
periments, e. g. to investigate competition-defense
tradeos and negative feedbacks with pathogens * ap-
ply advanced molecular techniques to identify fungal
taxa
Requirements / expected prole:
* an excellent Master's or Diploma degree in a relevant
eld of research * experience in experimental ecology,
including the design and statistical analysis of ecologi-
cal experiments * strong interest in conceptual issues inecology * good use of spoken and written English and
ambition to publish in international journals * experi-
ence in sequencing techniques is advantageous
We oer you a PhD position, aliated with the Univer-
sity of Leipzig and supervised by Prof. Christian Wil-
helm, department of Plant Physiology, Institute of Biol-
ogy/University of Leipzig (http://www.uni-leipzig.de/-
~ paphys <http://www.uni-leipzig.de/%7Epaphys
>).
Applications are accepted until July 01, 2013.
All applications should include:
- lled application form (download under http:/-
/www.idiv-biodiversity.de/ydiv/positionsjobs - cover
letter describing research interests & relevant experi-
ence - curriculum vitae - one letter of recommendation
- MA/BA/Diploma certicates
Applications should be directed to the yDiv coordina-
tor Dr. Jula Zimmermann (ydiv@idiv-biodiversity.de
<mailto:ydiv@idiv-biodiversity.de >) in a single PDF
le with reference le number (106/2013) in the sub-
ject line.
We prefer applications in electronic form (hard copy
applications can be sent to Dr. J. Zimmermann; Ger-
man Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research - iDiv;
Deutscher Platz 5e; 04103 Leipzig)
For queries on the application process please
contact ydiv@idiv-biodiversity.de <mailto:ydiv@idiv-
biodiversity.de >
{
*Dr. Jula Zimmermann *
/Scientic Coordinator of the Graduate School - yDiv /
Wissenschaftliche Koordinatorin der Graduiertenschule
- yDiv German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig/
//iDiv Logo
Phone +49(0)341-97-33125 Fax +49(0)341-
97-31264 Email jula.zimmermann@idiv-
biodiversity.de <mailto:friederike.heinze@idiv-
biodiversity.de >
German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search(iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig Deutscher Platz 5d
04103 Leipzig Germany
iDiv ist ein Forschungszentrum der Deutschen
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Es ist eine zentrale
Einrichtung der Universit at Leipzig im Sinne des
x92 Abs. 1 S achsHSFG und wird zusammen mit
der Martin-Luther-Universit at Halle-Wittenberg,
der Friedrich-Schiller-Universit at Jena sowie dem36 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Helmholtz-Zentrum f ur Umweltforschung (UFZ)
betrieben. Sieben aueruniversit are Einrichtungen
unterst utzen iDiv nanziell sowie durch ihre Ex-
pertise: das Max-Planck-Institut f ur Biogeochemie
(MPI BGC), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur chemische
Okologie (MPI CE), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur
evolution are Anthropologie (MPI EVA), das Leibniz-
Institut Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismenund Zellkulturen (DSMZ), das Leibniz-Institut f ur
Panzenbiochemie (IPB), das Leibnitz-Institut f ur
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Jobs
BarnardC NY Teaching 2013-2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
MaxPlanck FishTechnician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Norway AnimalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
R-programming animations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
ReedCollege LabAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Repsol Madrid DirectedEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
RyersonU GenomicBigData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
SW Australia FieldAssist Wrens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
TreeViewingApp programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UAlabama LabTech SuccessionDynamics . . . . . . . . . . 41
UAlaska Fairbanks GeneticLabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UBritishColumbia ResAssist Bioinformatics . . . . . . . 42
UCBerkeley LabManager Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43UCDavis LabManager PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . 43
UConnecticut Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UMississippi FreshwaterBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UPennsylvania Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UPennsylvania LabTech MicrobeEvolution . . . . . . . . 46
USheeld Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
USussex ResearchTech SocialWasps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UTexas Austin LabTech HostParasiteEvolution . . . .47
UTexas Austin LabTech SticklebackEvolution . . . . . 48
UVienna ProfSystematicEvolutionaryBotany . . . . . . 48
UppsalaU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
VolFieldAssist Panama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
BarnardC NY Teaching 2013-2014
*Adjunct or Term Assistant Professor*
The Barnard College Department of Biology seeks a vis-
iting Assistant Professor for the 2013-14 academic year.
Teaching duties in the fall semester include a course in
animal behavior, a senior seminar on a topic in the can-
didates area of specialty, and instructional support in
running a large Introductory Biology lab that focuses
on physiology and ecology. Highly qualied individ-
uals will be considered for a one-year full-time Term
Assistant Professor appointment that requires the can-
didate to teach two additional courses in Spring 2014 on
topics to be determined. A Ph.D. and teaching experi-ence are required. Applicants should send curriculum
vitae, a teaching statement, and three letters of rec-
ommendation to: biologyjob@barnard.edu. Review of
applications will begin on 15 July 2013. Barnard Col-
lege is an Equal Opportunity Employer and encourages
applications from women and individuals from under-
represented groups.
Hilary Callahan Associate Professor, Department
Chair Department of Biological Sciences 1007 Altschul
Barnard College, Columbia University 3009 Broadway
New York, NY 10027 212-854-5405
Heredity is nothing but stored environment.
< http://www.searchquotes.com/quotation/-
Heredity isnothing butstored environment./96519/
>
Luther Burbank
Hilary Callahan <hcallaha@barnard.edu >July 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
MaxPlanck FishTechnician
Stickleback Fish Husbandry Technician, Jones Lab,
Friedrich Miescher Laboratory of the Max Planck So-
ciety, Tuebingen Germany.
The research group of Felicity Jones at the Friedrich Mi-
escher Laboratory of the Max Planck Society is looking
for a motivated Animal Husbandry Technician - Fish
(Full time).
Our lab investigates the molecular mechanisms of adap-
tation and speciation in threespine stickleback sh. Us-
ing functional genetics and genomics we aim to under-
stand the molecular changes that contribute to pheno-
typic dierences, aect individual tness and play a role
in adaptive divergence.
Your responsibilities: You will be responsible for the
feeding, care, husbandry and maintenance of threespine
stickleback sh in a new aquarium facility. You will be
actively involved in the day-to-day running of the fa-
cility including the administering of food, monitoring
of animal health, water chemistry changes, aquarium
cleaning, and record keeping in a husbandry database.
Basic knowledge and experience working with sh hus-
bandry would be advantageous. As we study natural
populations of sticklebacks, your help and participation
in eld collections may occasionally be required.
Our requirements: We are looking for a reliable, enthu-
siastic and motivated individual with training in animal
husbandry, biological sciences or similar qualication.
Prior experience with sh husbandry and technical run-
ning of aquatic facilities (handling, crossing, breeding,
care, and water chemistry) would be advantageous but
not required. The ability to carry out clean and physi-
cally demanding work is an absolute requirement. Will-
ingness to learn and troubleshoot new techniques is im-
portant. Experience or understanding of basic genetics
would be helpful, but is not necessarily a requirement.
We expect from you interest and enjoyment in basic
research, goal-oriented and self-motivated work ethic,
exibility and the readiness to learn new skills. English
communication skills would be useful, as English is the
working language in our lab.
We oer: interesting work in an interdisciplinary team
with young scientists, and international atmosphere
and excellent lab working conditions. We will provide
comprehensive on-the-job training. We oer remuner-ation in accordance to the TV oD standard based on
qualication and previous experience. The position is
initially limited to 2 years, with the possibility of exten-
sion. The Max Planck Society is committed to employ-
ing more women in the various jurisdictions in which
they are underrepresented. Qualied women are there-
fore particularly being encouraged to apply. The Max
Planck Society is committed to the employment of dis-
abled people. With equal qualications preference will
be given to those with a disability.
Application deadline: 07 July 2013. Please send your
applications with CV and contact details of at least two
referees by post or e-mail to:
Dr. Felicity Jones Friedrich Miescher Labora-
tory of the Max Planck Society Spemannstrasse 39
72076 T ubingen Germany fcjones@tuebingen.mpg.de
http://www.fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/jones-group.html
jones.oss@gmail.com
Norway AnimalGenetics
*NordGen is seeking a senior advisor/scientist for Nord-
Gen Farm Animals*
NordGen oers an interesting position with variable
and challenging work in conservation and sustainable
management of farm animal genetic resources in the
Nordic and international arena.
NordGen is seeking a person with a strong interest in
farm animal genetic resources, with higher academic
education (MSc or PhD) in population genetics, con-
servation genetics, quantitative genetics and/or animal
breeding or related disciplines. Working experience ob-
tained from research and development, animal breeding
organizations, conservation organisations, international
processes and networking and/or public administration
is appreciated. Strong English communication skills are
required as well as knowledge of one of the Scandina-
vian languages.
Main responsibilities:
- Knowledge and capacity building within sustainable
use and conservation of farm animal genetic resources
in collaboration with universities, international orga-
nizations, conservation and breeding organizations. -
Project development and initiation - Project participa-
tion, management and communication. - Contribution
to the development of networks with Nordic and in-
ternational stakeholders and promotion of current net-38 EvolDir July 1, 2013
works through workshops, seminars and meetings. -
Participation in the information and communication
tasks (presentations, publications) and production of
information materials for NordGen's website Acting as
coordinator and secretary of NordGen Farm Animals
projects and working groups. - Contribution to meet-
ings, seminars and the daily team-based work of Nord-
Gen Farm Animals and at NordGen's headquarters.
The position requires some travelling.
NordGen oers:
- An exciting position in a professional and interna-
tional working environment.
Employment contract according to the regulations of
the Nordic Council of Ministers. The employment con-
tract will be signed rst for 4 years with the possibility
for an additional 4 years.
- Salary according to individual agreement, other work-
ing conditions are given by the regulation of the employ-
ment agreements of the State of Sweden. - Possibilities
to develop personal competence.
The post is located at the Norwegian Forest and Land-
scape Institute, As, Norway. The number of employees
of NordGen-Farm Animals is three persons. The senior
advisor will report directly to Head of NordGen Farm
Animals.
Information about the position can be obtained
from Director Arni Bragason, +46738171215 or
+4640536644 or Head of NordGen Farm Animals, Dr.
Peer Berg, +47 6494 9790 or +47 4062 4469
Applications, including CV and references should be
sent *no later than August 2, 2013 *to Nordic Genetic
Resource Center, jobb@nordgen.org or to the mailing
address: NordGen, Arni Bragason, P.O. Box 41, SE-
23053 Alnarp, Sweden.
See also:
http://www.nordgen.org/index.php/en/Innehaall/-
About-NordGen/Job-vacancies/Senior-Advisor-
NordGen-Animal Kind Regards
*Peer Berg* Section Leader NordGen Farm Ani-
mals *NordGen - Nordic Genetic Resource Center*
www.NordGen.org E-mail: Peer.Berg@nordgen.org
Phone: +47 6494 9790 Mobile: +47 4062 4469
peer.berg@nordgen.orgR-programming animations
Job: R-programming and Flash Animations
Programming needed for animation of gures for the
online version of an advanced text on phenotypic evo-
lution. Rough programs in R will be provided for origi-
nal, static gures. The task is to modify these programs
so that the gures are animated in particular ways and
those animations can be posted on a text website. Con-
tracts can be let and work conducted at a distance.
Contractor must not be an employee of Oregon State
University. Funding is in place for about 1,000 hours of
programming work. For additional detail contact Ste-
van J Arnold at
arnolds@science.oregonstate.edu
with \Animation programming" in subject line.
Stevan J Arnold Department of Zoology Oregon State
University Corvallis, OR 97331
website: http://people.oregonstate.edu/ ~ arnoldst/
Stevan J Arnold <arnolds@science.oregonstate.edu >
ReedCollege LabAssistant
Please post or distribute to people who may be inter-
ested in applying for the job below. Experience in
particular areas of biology or with particular equip-
ment/tools (for example, microscopy, working with
live animal/plant systems, cell culture experience, etc.)
should be indicated in the application. The position
provides many opportunities to interact closely with
faculty and students in the department. Also, the ad
indicates only a bachelor's is required, but applicants
with advanced degrees are strongly encouraged to ap-
ply. * *
*About Reed: *Reed College, located in Portland, Ore-
gon, was founded in 1908 as an independent, coedu-
cational, nonsectarian college of the liberal arts and
sciences. Devoted to the intrinsic value of intellectual
pursuit and governed by the highest standards of schol-
arly practice, critical thought, and creativity, Reed has
served for over a hundred years as an exemplar of theJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
liberal arts while consistently providing one of the best
academic experiences in the United States. In support
of this mission, we are seeking a dynamic *Laboratory
Stockroom Assistant* to join our team.
*Position Summary: *The Laboratory Stockroom
Assistant is responsible for setting up equipment,
reagents, supplies and organisms required for classroom
laboratory exercises.This is a full-time, 12-month ex-
empt position, (1.00 FTE), working 37.5 hours a week,
beginning August 1, 2013. Reed College oers a bene-
ts package that is unparalleled. Benets include com-
prehensive medical and dental insurance, 403(b) re-
tirement plan with 10% employer contribution, retiree
medical plan, college tuition assistance for employees'
children, paid holidays, paid vacation and many other
campus amenities, such as membership to the campus
tness center for employee and spouse and discounted
TriMet bus passes.
*Essential functions*
Setting up equipment and organisms for experiments
Preparation of media and buers
Working knowledge of modern, molecular biology tech-
niques
Assisting students with independent research projects
Supervising student workers
Maintaining common equipment
*Knowledge, Skills and Abilities*
Knowledge of laboratory and safety techniques, prac-
tices and procedures
Specic knowledge of techniques such as PCR, quanti-
tative PCR, and Western Blotting, in situ hybridization
a plus
Knowledge of aseptic technique and troubleshooting a
plus
*Education and Experience*
Bachelor's degree in Biology or related eld
Directly related laboratory experience
Or any combination of experience and education that
provides the applicant with the desired skills, knowl-
edge and ability required to perform the job.
*To Apply* Email a Letter of Introduction
discussing your qualications and interests, a
Reed Application for Employment < http://-
www.reed.edu/human resources/assets/pdfs/-
2011HR appform llable.pdf >and your resume
to employment@reed.edu.Review of applications will begin immediately, deadline
to apply is June 30, 2013.
The Reed Application for Employment is located at:
http://www.reed.edu/human resources/stasearch/-
index.html Reed College is an Equal Opportunity
Employer, Reed values diversity and encourages
applications from underrepresented groups.
Sarah Schaack, PhD Reed College Assistant Professor
Department of Biology, B106 3203 Southeast Wood-
stock Boulevard Portland, OR 97202 oce: 503-517-
7948 lab: 503-517-7976
Email: schaackmobile@gmail.com, schaack@reed.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/site/schaackwork/
Oce hours, Spring 2013: Thursdays, 10:30 am to 12:30
pm
schaackmobile@gmail.com
Repsol Madrid DirectedEvolution
Seeking a Protein Engineer with experience in directed
evolution and enzymology.
The Repsol Technology Center seeks a biochemist with
at least two years postdoctoral experience in protein
engineering and directed evolution of enzymes. Indus-
try experience is not a must, however we seek demon-
strated ability in designing methodologies for approach-
ing problems in biocatalysis. This experience should
include laboratory automation and the implementation
of state of the art genetic and evolutionary approaches
towards enzyme catalysis.
The protein engineer will be integrated within a grow-
ing team of highly qualied scientists within the Bioen-
ergy Group at Repsol. The aim of this group is to
develop the technological and scientic tools necessary
for meeting the energy challenges of the twenty rst
century. This is an exciting and demanding work envi-
ronment requiring intellectual creativity and the capac-
ity to work with scientists and engineers from diverse
disciplines.
The Repsol Technology Center is the agship R&D fa-
cility of Repsol, which is a leading multinational oil and
gas company with operations across the globe. The
technology center is located in the outskirts of Madrid,
a vibrant and diverse metropolitan area with a high
standard of living and quality of life.
Applicants should send their CV including a list of pub-40 EvolDir July 1, 2013
lications, a cover letter, and a one to two page summary
of their past experience and how they can contribute to
projects focusing on bioenergy. Please send application
material to seleccion10@repsol.com. The application
deadline is 15th July 2013.
seleccion10@repsol.com
RyersonU GenomicBigData
Hello folks,
The Dean of the Faculty of Science has just announced
that Ryerson University is conducting an external
search for a Teir II NSERC Canada Research Chair in
the area of Big data (broadly dened). If you are aware
of any young (within 10 years of PhD) research stars in
this area, please alert them to this opportunity. We are
very excited to have an opportunity to recruit another
excellent researcher in the area of Big Data to the Fac-
ulty of Science (if the successful candidate chooses us
as their home).
Our ability to secure one and possibly two new CRCs is
a testament to the tremendous research activities and
eorts of our new and growing Faculty of Science. The
Tier II Canada Research Chairs that will come available
within the Faculty in 2014.
If interested folks email me, I will send them contact
information to express their interest to the appropriate
people at Ryerson. It would be really great to have Eco-
informatics or Genome Informatics folks considered in
this competition. BEST, LC
lesley.g.campbell@ryerson.ca
SW Australia FieldAssist Wrens
Field assistant job fairy-wrens
I am looking for a eld assistant to monitor a popula-
tion of red-winged fairy-wrens in south-west Australia
for a 15 week period (9 October 2013 - 22 January 2014)
as part of an on-going study on cooperation and com-
petition. The study is based at Smithbrook Nature
Reserve in one of the 35 biodiversity hotspots of the
world. Duties include searching for nests, monitoringcolour-ringed birds, behavioural observations, mist net-
ting and data entry. Working days are long, start early
and consist of lots of hiking through dense forest with
occasional encounters with venomous snakes. Appli-
cants must be physically t and have outstanding hear-
ing and vision, be able to work independently, get along
well with others in remote eld setting and tolerate hot
weather conditions. Enthusiasm, self-motivation, and
a strong work ethic are a must. Qualications: expe-
rience monitoring colour-ringed birds, nest-searching,
mist netting and current drivers licence. Field assis-
tant will be appointed as a research assistant at the
Australian National University (total gross salary for
15 weeks $13,907 AUD). Onsite accommodation is pro-
vided, but candidate must pay their own ight to Perth,
Australia. To apply, please email a letter outlining pre-
vious relevant eld research experience, and a resume
including names and contact information for 3 refer-
ees to Lyanne Brouwer (lyanne.brouwer@anu.edu.au).
Applicants will be considered as they apply until the
position is lled.
Lyanne Brouwer <lyanne.brouwer@anu.edu.au >
TreeViewingApp programmer
I am a biologist currently working with a team of App
developers to build a tree viewing App for exploring the
tree of life.
So long, we have managed to develop the main func-
tions of the App, but we have had many troubles with
the last features.
We want to hire someone with experience in program-
ming tree-viewing software to nish the App, so I was
wondering if you know someone that could be interested
in the job.
I would greatly appreciate your help.
Best regards,
Andres
Enviado con Correo de Windows
Andr es Del Risco <andres delrisco@hotmail.com >July 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
UAlabama LabTech
SuccessionDynamics
Research Technician in Community Ecology at The
University of Alabama
The Howeth Laboratory at the University of Alabama
invites applications for a full-time research technician
in community ecology beginning August 15, 2013. The
technician will be involved in projects which aim to un-
derstand (1) succession in pond metacommunities and
(2) the role of metacommunity dynamics in aecting
the establishment, spread, and impact of non-native
species, using freshwater plankton communities as a
model system. The position is for 12 months, with re-
sponsibilities divided equally between eld and labora-
tory work. Field work may include out-of-state travel
for several weeks, and mesocosm experiments at the
University of Alabama Tanglewood Biological Station.
Laboratory work may include identication and enu-
meration of zooplankton, culturing of zooplankton, wa-
ter chemistry analyses, and microsatellite DNA analy-
ses.
Required qualications: BS or MS in Biology, Ecol-
ogy, or related science. Ability to tolerate harsh eld
conditions when necessary. Basic computer skills and
familiarity with major software programs (word pro-
cessing and database management). Ability to interact
congenially with students.
Preferred qualications: Previous experience in fresh-
water ecology and/or molecular ecology.
Relevant Links:
Department of Biological Sciences: http://bsc.ua.edu/
Center for Freshwater Studies: http://as.ua.edu/cfs/
University of Alabama: www.ua.edu Tuscaloosa, Al-
abama is a vibrant university community with numer-
ous cultural and recreational opportunities available.
The newly constructed Tuscaloosa Amphitheater, lo-
cated on the banks of the Black Warrior River and just
minutes from the UA campus, brings a variety of shows
and musicians to the city. Recreational activities such
as canoeing and hiking are quite popular in the nearby
Black Warrior and Sipsey River natural areas, and the
Talladega National Forest.
Salary is commensurate with experience. Visit UA's
sta employment website at http://jobs.ua.edu for
more information and to apply. All applicants shouldsubmit a cover letter, a statement detailing relevant re-
search experience, contact information for three refer-
ences, and a CV. Job close date 05/30/2013. EOE/AA
{
Jennifer Howeth, PhD Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Sciences Program in Ecology, Evolution,
and Systematics
University of Alabama Box 870206 1106 Bevill Build-
ing, 201 7th Ave. Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0206
http://bsc.ua.edu/jennifer-howeth/
jghoweth@as.ua.edu
UAlaska Fairbanks GeneticLabTech
*Genetics Laboratory Technician needed at the Univer-
sity of Alaska Fairbanks*
**
*Job Description:*
The Prugh lab at the University of Alaska Fairbanks is
seeking an experienced genetics lab technician to con-
duct microsatellite and mitochondrial DNA analyses for
a non-invasive genetics study of carnivores in Alaska.
We are studying the population dynamics of coyotes
and other small furbearers (foxes, lynx, and marten) to
examine the relative importance of predation, food sup-
ply, and climate in the dynamics of mid-sized furbear-
ers. The technician will help to set up a new genetics
lab in a new building (the Margaret Murie Life Sciences
Building), extract DNA, optimize PCR protocols, run
mtDNA and microsatellite analyses, and use software
to analyze results. Other duties will include purchas-
ing, training undergraduate and graduate students, and
possible assistance with manuscript preparation (with
potential co-authorship).
**
*Specic Duties:*
* Extract DNA from hair and feces * Amplify mtDNA
and nuclear DNA using PCR * Run and analyze agarose
gels (for species ID and sex) * Prepare amplied DNA
for microsatellite analyses on ABR sequencers * An-
alyze microsatellite images using standard software to
obtain genotypes * Error check data for signs of allelic
dropout, false alleles, and contamination * Optimize
protocols for amplifying DNA
*Dates and hours:*42 EvolDir July 1, 2013
The position is full-time from July through December
2013, with the possibility of extension for 6 additional
months.
*Compensation:*
$23.95 per hour
*Knowledge, skills and abilities:*
Prociency at conducting microsatellite and mtDNA
analyses is required (extraction, PCR, genotyping).
Successful applicants will be able to conduct analyses
and optimize protocols with little training or super-
vision. Applicants must be highly organized, detail-
oriented, and possess a strong work ethic.
*Education or training:*
A bachelor's degree in the biological sciences is re-
quired, emphasis on molecular biology and genetics is
preferred. MSc degree in wildlife genetics or related
eld is preferred. At least 1 year of experience con-
ducting genetic analyses in a research lab is required,
2+ years of experience is preferred. Previous experience
and coursework in wildlife ecology and conservation ge-
netics is preferred.
*To Apply:*
Visit**https://www.uakjobs.com/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=81163 Deadline 6/15/13
For questions, please email Laura Prugh at
lprugh@alaska.edu**
{ Laura Prugh Assistant Professor of Wildlife Ecol-
ogy 311 Irving I University of Alaska Fairbanks Fair-
banks, AK 99775 lprugh@alaska.edu oce: 401 Irv-
ing I phone: 907-474-5965 fax: 907-474-7666 http:/-
/sites.google.com/site/laurarprugh/ Laura Prugh
<lprugh@alaska.edu >
UBritishColumbia ResAssist
Bioinformatics
JOB SUMMARY Will provide bioinformatics support
for a large scale genomics project. The primary fo-
cus of this research is to generate a reference sequence
for sunowers using next generation sequencing tech-
nology, and to make this data and related resources
publicly available
ORGANIZATIONAL STATUS Employed by Dr.
Loren Rieseberg (Principle Investigator). Reports di-
rectly to L. Rieseberg. Works together with and pro-vides technical assistance to other members of the re-
search group including postdoctoral fellows and grad-
uate students. For administrative matters, reports to
the Botany Administrative Manager.
WORK PERFORMED Designs and implements algo-
rithms and pipelines for plant genome assembly and
population genetics data analysis. Develops pipelines
for processing next generation sequence data. Writes
reports, presents research results at lab meetings and
conferences , and assists with writing grant applications
and publications. Organizes large data sets for evolu-
tionary studies and distributes data to collaborators as
needed. Automates submission to NCBI and other pub-
lic data repositories. Maintains a Laboratory Informa-
tion Management System for biological samples, and
sequencing and phenotype data. Complete web and
database development for a data repository website,
integrating search and bioinformatic tools for online
analysis. Performs Linux administration, data backup,
and hardware maintenance of high performance servers.
Other related tasks in support of the research project.
QUALIFICATIONS Undergraduate degree in Biology
or Computer Science required. Minimum of 4 years of
related experience or the equivalent combination of ed-
ucation and experience. Two years relevant experience
with bioinformatics tools required. Prociency in at
least one scripting language, such as Perl or Python,
is required. Experience with statistical analysis, clus-
ter computing, IT support, and development of web
applications is highly desirable. Working knowledge of
C/C++, Java, Javascript, R, SQL is an asset. Com-
pletion of courses in evolutionary biology, statistics,
molecular biology and computer science an asset. Must
demonstrate strong skills in programming, a good un-
derstanding of high performance computing and knowl-
edge of probability theory. Ability to learn new soft-
ware; Ability to troubleshoot; Ability to exercise initia-
tive, tact and discretion; Ability to participate in and
contribute to a multidisciplinary team; a high degree of
motivation, enthusiasm and initiative; Strong problem
solving and decision making skills; Ability to prioritize
workload and meet deadlines; Attentive to detail, with
the ability to work quickly and accurately.
CONSEQUENCE OF ERROR Work will be clearly de-
ned and tasks and duties will often follow existing pro-
tocols. However, there is considerable room for innova-
tive thinking to improve upon existing approaches, as
well as to provide novel solutions for the assembly of
very large and complex genomes. In most cases errors
would require troubleshooting and then repeating the
procedure.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED Receives instructions dur-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
ing orientation, thereafter on new assignments or
changes in procedures. Work is subject to check by
the Principle Investigator (PI) and PDFs. Errors will
be followed up by discussions and troubleshooting with
the PDFs and the PI.
SUPERVISION GIVEN Supervises more junior bioin-
formatician in L. Rieseberg's group (Tech 2).
POSITION DESCRIPTION #00033735 BUSINESS
TITLE: Research Asst/Tech 4 EMPLOYMENT
GROUP: CUPE 116(Service/Techs/Trades) JOB
FAMILY: Research/Technical - CUPE 116 JOB
CODE: 251406 - Research Asst/Tech 4 VP/FACULTY:
Faculty of Science DEPARTMENT: Botany Desired
Start Date: September 2013 Funding Type: Grant
Funded
apply directly on UBCs HR site: http://-
www.hr.ubc.ca/careers-postings/sta.php Closing
Date: 2013/06/28
Sebastien Renaut <srenaut@interchange.ubc.ca >
sebastien.renaut@gmail.com
UCBerkeley LabManager
Adaptation
The Rosenblum Lab at UC Berkeley is looking for a new
lab member to serve as a sta scientist and laboratory
manager, ideally joining the lab in late summer 2013.
The scientist will join a dynamic research group and
will be aliated with the Department of Environmen-
tal Science, Policy and Management, the UC Berkeley
Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, and the Berkeley Ini-
tiative for Global Change Biology. The scientist will
be responsible for day-to-day lab operations including
laboratory administration, regulatory compliance, bud-
getary accounting, and mentoring undergraduate re-
searchers. The scientist will also be actively involved in
research on the genomics of adaptation and speciation
and can be engaged in project coordination, wet lab re-
search, data analysis, and manuscript preparation. The
scientist must have excellent organizational and inter-
personal skills. Expertise in molecular biology or bioin-
formatics is desired. The opportunity can be tailored to
a scientist at the MA/MS or PhD level. More informa-
tion about research activities in the Rosenblum Lab is
available at http://nature.berkeley.edu/rosenblum. If
interested, please send a CV and letter of interest (no
more than 2 pages on prior experience, current inter-ests, career goals, t for the position, and any timing
constraints) to rosenblum@berkeley.edu by June 17th
2013.
rosenblum@berkeley.edu
UCDavis LabManager
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Lab Manager: Plant evolutionary geneticist at Univer-
sity of California Davis
Job summary:
The Schmitt Lab at the University of California Davis
(plantgxe.ucdavis.edu) is seeking an experienced plant
evolutionary geneticist as a lab manager. Under gen-
eral supervision, the lab manager will assist in the set
up and management of a new research lab and help
launch and coordinate new research projects focused on
quantitative genetics and genomics of plant adaptation
in Arabidopsis thaliana and other species. He/she will
apply understanding of basic laboratory operations to
conduct current molecular biology work and have the
resources required to run a lab, including strong man-
agement and organizational ability, good communica-
tion skills and strong data base and computer analysis
skills. He/she will support experimental work in the
greenhouse, growth chambers and/or a eld environ-
ment. The candidate is expected to be an intellectual
contributor to the lab by: reading, understanding and
assimilating the scientic literature relevant to ongo-
ing projects; independently working on his/her own re-
search and supervising others on the project; writing or
contributing to research publications.
Minimum qualications:
- Masters degree in biology, genetics, or related elds
or equivalent education and experience. - Skill to ex-
act and organize lab and eld work. - Background in
working with plants in the eld. - Experience in a
plant evolutionary biology or molecular biology lab. -
Prociency in common laboratory skills and knowledge
(e.g., pipetting, preparing reagents, standard calcula-
tions.) - Prociency in genetics. - Experience with gel
electrophoresis, PCR, DNA and RNA hybridization. -
Computer skills for raw data le and results data le
handling, entry into database from sheets, record keep-
ing of quality control charts. - Knowledge to inter-
pret and follow protocols in the scientic literature. -
Knowledge of chemicals and requirements for safe han-44 EvolDir July 1, 2013
dling procedures. - Experience demonstrating excellent
communications skills to, speak on a one-to-one basis,
and interact eectively with others. - Skills to listen to
and follow verbal and written instructions. - Experience
to independently follow through with projects, learn
specic laboratory Standard Operating Procedures and
safety requirements.
Start Date:
August/September 2013
Please see the UC Davis job posting for more informa-
tion, additional qualications and how to apply:
www.employment.ucdavis.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFinde466
All applicants must submit through the UC Davis web-
site, however if there are additional questions please
email Amanda Gorton at ajgorton@ucdavis.edu
Amanda J. Gorton, MSc Schmitt Lab plant-
gxe.ucdavis.edu Department of Evolution and Ecology
UC Davis One Shields Ave Davis, CA 95616
ajgorton.work@gmail.com
UConnecticut Bioinformatics
Research Scientist Position in Genomics
A research scientist position in bioinformatics and com-
putational biology is available in the Malone Labora-
tory of Gene Dosage and Evolution in the Department
of Molecular and Cell Biology at the University of Con-
necticut. The laboratory will address questions of gene
dosage, aneuploidy, sex chromosome evolution, and sex
determination using frogs and ies to ultimately un-
derstand the relationship between gene dose, genome
balance, and phenotype.
The research scientist will take part in de novo assem-
bly analyses of several frog species and analyze a vari-
ety of high-throughput sequencing datasets to address
questions of dose, dosage compensation, and gene evo-
lution. Prociency with multiple scripting languages,
experience with de novo assembly algorithms, high-
throughput sequencing analysis, and tools for computa-
tional, comparative, and evolutionary genomic analysis
are required. The research scientist will help train un-
dergraduate and graduate students in genome analyses
and organize workows and databases for data storage
and management. Excellent communication skills are
necessary.The intellectual environment for genomic research at
the University of Connecticut is rich and vibrant, in-
cluding the Institute of Systems Genomics, University
of Connecticut Health Center, Jackson Laboratory for
Genomic Medicine, Center for Applied Genetics and
Technology, and a 1.5+ billion dollar investment in
STEM elds by the state of Connecticut. The labo-
ratory will interact closely with these centers and re-
sources and these interactions promise exciting new av-
enues to address fundamental and applied questions in
genome biology. Candidates should expect to engage
with the genome analysis community at the University
of Connecticut, develop and pursue their own research
ideas, and receive mentoring and guidance from the PI.
Applicants should send a single PDF le that contains
a cover letter describing your research interests and ex-
perience (maximum 2 pages), C.V., and contact infor-
mation for three references to john.malone@uconn.edu.
Review of applications will begin on 22 July and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Start period: fall 2013.
Applications for either a research scientist or postdoc-
toral role and informal inquires from candidates with
other backgrounds in genomics and evolutionary biol-
ogy are welcome.
The University of Connecticut is an EEO/AA employer
John H. Malone Assistant Professor Department
of Molecular and Cell Biology University of Con-
necticut http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
3D09eqGzIAAAAJ&hl=3Den john.malone@uconn.edu
jmalone@bio.fsu.edu
UMississippi FreshwaterBiology
Doherty Chair in Freshwater Biology Department of
Biology and Center for Water and Wetland Resources,
The University of Mississippi
The University of Mississippi's Department of Biology
and Center for Water and Wetland Resources (CWWR)
seek an exceptional individual to expand research pro-
grams in freshwater biology. The successful candidate
will hold the title of Doherty Chair and will be a tenured
faculty member hired at the full Professor level with of-
ce and laboratory space at the CWWR located at the
UM Field Station. We seek a model mentor, teacher
and internationally recognized researcher with an es-
tablished, extramurally funded research program in any
discipline within freshwater/wetlands biology. The Do-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
herty Chair will be expected to 1) ensure excellence
in scholarship, teaching and service; 2) increase the
level and scope of extramural funding that supports
academic and research initiatives in the Department of
Biology and the CWWR; 3) provide leadership in de-
veloping a national reputation in freshwater/wetlands
biology at the University of Mississippi; and 4) enhance
outreach eorts in the com munity and the region. It
is expected that the Chair's research will be conducted
at least in part at the CWWR. Teaching will be com-
mensurate with the Chair's research commitment and
interests. The position oers a competitive salary, ben-
ets, and funded graduate assistantships.
The Department of Biology consists of 18 faculty and
annually educates approximately 1200 undergraduate
biology majors and 35 graduate students (M.S. and
Ph.D.). Departmental research spans all levels of or-
ganization from the cell to the ecosystem. More de-
tailed information concerning the department is avail-
able at http://www.olemiss.edu/depts/biology. The
Center for Water and Wetland Resources is a spe-
cialized research unit located at the 740-acre UM
Field Station, approximately 12 miles from the main
campus, which includes natural and constructed wet-
lands, 200 constructed ponds, and several natural
springs and small streams. More information concern-
ing the CWWR and eld station is available at http:/-
/www.baysprings.olemiss.edu/ . Founded in 1848 as
the state's rst public university, the main campus of
The University of Mississippi is located in Oxford, Mis-
sissippi, a community known for its many outstand-
ing educational and cultural opportunities. More de-
tailed information on Oxford is available at http://-
www.oxfordms.net/. The University is a growing, vi-
brant institution that oers nationally ranked academic
and research programs, and has been cited by Forbes
Magazine as one of the nation's 20 Best College Buys
and by the Chronicle of Higher Education as one of the
10 top \Great Colleges to Work For". Within the last
12 years, the University has produced eight Goldwa-
ter Scholars, two Rhodes Scholars, six Truman Schol-
ars, seven Fulbright Scholars, one Marshall Scholar, one
Udall Scholar and one Gates Cambridge Scholar.
To apply, please visit our Online Employment Service
at jobs.olemiss.edu. Applications should include: (1)
cover letter outlining interest and suitability for the po-
sition, (2) curriculum vitae, (3) statement of research
interests, (4) reprints of up to ve recent publications,
and (5) a list of ve references. Letters of nomina-
tion should be addressed to; Chair, Search Commit-
tee for Doherty Chair in Freshwater Biology, Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Mississippi, University,
MS 38677.Consideration of applications will begin immediately
and continue until the position is lled. The University
of Mississippi is an EEO/AA/TITLE IX/SECTION
504/ADA/ADEA EMPLOYER.
Ryan Garrick Department of Biology 508 Shoemaker
Hall University of Mississippi University, MS 38677-
1848, USA
webpage: http://www.rcgarrick.org <
http://www.rcgarrick.org/ >
rgarrick@olemiss.edu
UPennsylvania Bioinformatics
Assistant Professor, Penn Institute for Biomedical In-
formatics
Posting Department:
Posted Date: 05/07/2013
Expire Date: 05/07/2015
To apply: http://www.med.upenn.edu/apps/-
faculty ad/index.php/d3300
The Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics at the
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Penn-
sylvania seeks candidates for an Assistant Professor po-
sition in the tenure track. The successful applicant will
have experience in the eld of bioinformatics research.
Applicants must have an M.D. and/or Ph.D degree and
have demonstrated excellent qualications in research
and education.
The faculty appointments will be at the Assistant Pro-
fessor level in the tenure track in an appropriate de-
partment in the School of Medicine. Applicants are
expected to establish robust independent funding for
their research program.
This Institute is enabled by a recent multi-million dollar
gift and focused on the science of biomedical informat-
ics. The Institute will integrate informatics disciplines
from bioinformatics, to translational, clinical, and pub-
lic health informatics.
The University of Pennsylvania, founded by Benjamin
Franklin, is a world-class research institution located
near the center of Philadelphia. All of Penn's twelve
schools are located within walking distance of one an-
other. The Perelman School of Medicine at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania is one of the top ranked medical
schools in the nation for research and NIH funding.46 EvolDir July 1, 2013
We seek candidates who embrace and reect diversity
in the broadest sense.
The University of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity,
armative action employer.
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D. David and Lyn Silfen Uni-
versity Professor Departments of Genetics and
Biology University of Pennsylvania Tel: 215-
746-2670 tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu http://-
www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/
tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
UPennsylvania LabTech
MicrobeEvolution
Job: Laboratory Technician Department of Biology,
University of Pennsylvania
A laboratory technician position is available in the evo-
lution of infectious microbes lab led by Dustin Brisson
at the University of Pennsylvania. The main focus of
the projects involves the bacterial cause of Lyme dis-
ease, Borrelia burgdorferi. The position requires both
laboratory skills to collect data as well as intellectual
skills to integrate ideas across multiple scales of bio-
logical complexity (i.e. molecular-level, organism-level,
and population-level).
We are seeking a highly motivated, enthusiastic, and
enquiring individual with a background in evolution-
ary biology or ecology. Strong molecular genetic skills
are highly advantageous. The successful candidate will
conduct both molecular biology and animal husbandry
and will contribute to formulation of experiments, data
collection and data analysis.
A Bachelor's degree in biology (or a related science)
OR 2 years of experience or equivalent combination of
education and experience is required.
The University of Pennsylvania has a strong group of
evolutionary biologists and ecologists in the biology de-
partment that frequently interact with each other and
with an accomplished group of microbiologists in the
Medical and Veterinary schools.
Starting dates are exible and and can start as early as
August 2013. Salary is commensurate with experience.
Please send enquiries to dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
dbrisson@sas.upenn.eduUSheeld Bioinformatics
University of Sheeld Department of Animal & Plant
Sciences Lecturer (= Assistant Professor) in Bioinfor-
matics
The University is advertising four academic posts in
Bioinformatics, including one in the Department of An-
imal and Plant Sciences (APS).
APS (http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps) is renowned for its
work on behavioural ecology, evolutionary ecology, pop-
ulation genetics and plant ecophysiology, and supports
multiple major eld and lab studies of adaptation
and speciation. This work is increasingly dependent
on whole-genome sequencing and comparative genome
analysis. We wish to appoint a talented genome biol-
ogist who complements our current strengths and who
has a track record in, for example, genome assembly
and analysis, environmental epigenomics, or using ge-
nomic data to test evolutionary or mechanistic hypothe-
ses. Computational/ statistical biologists who have a
strong interest in creating computational or analyti-
cal tools (e.g. new algorithms, statistical methods) for
wider community use are also encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate will have a strong track record
of research in a bioinformatics-led subject area relevant
to the expertise in APS, and should have experience of
delivering teaching to undergraduates.
For further details of the post see Job Reference Num-
ber: UOS006629 APS http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/-
AGQ577/lecturer-in-bioinformatics/ Closing date: 1
July 2013.
The Bioinformatics Centre, with links to the other
posts, is described at http://www.shef.ac.uk/faculty/-
science/bioinformatics Informal enquiries about the
post in APS can be addressed to Terry Burke
(t.a.burke@sheeld.ac.uk; +44 114 222 0096).
t.a.burke@sheeld.ac.uk
USussex ResearchTech SocialWasps
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN IN MOLECU-
LAR/BEHAVIOURAL ECOLOGY OF SOCIALJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
SYSTEMS
Full time, 29 months xed term Closing date for appli-
cations: 17 July 2013 Start date: 1 October 2013 Salary
range: starting at $27,047 and rising to $30,424 per an-
num. It is normal to appoint at the rst point of the
salary scale.
We seek a self-motivated person with an interest in be-
havioural ecology/entomology for a 29-month NERC-
funded full-time post in the research group of Pro-
fessor Jeremy Field at Sussex University, UK (http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/). The aim of the
project is to understand group formation in primitively
eusocial insects, using Polistes paper wasps as a model.
The major part of the work will be microsatellite geno-
typing, with initial training provided as required. There
will also be a range of other labwork, and there may be
an opportunity to take part in eldwork in Spain.
The successful applicant will have a degree or equiv-
alent in a relevant subject and an interest in animal
behaviour/entomology. Experience with animal social
systems (especially social insects), and experience of
molecular techniques, behavioural ecology/entomology
and eldwork would be useful, but it is not necessary
to have experience in all of these areas.
The Evolution, Behaviour and Environment (EBE)
Subject Group in the School of Life Sciences at Sus-
sex (http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ebe/research) is a
thriving research environment with an exceptional con-
centration of research expertise that focusses on social
evolution in insects. Jeremy Field, Francis Ratnieks,
Bill Hughes, Dave Goulson, Tom Collett and Paul Gra-
ham all lead well-established research groups in the
area.
As well as the standard University of Sussex applica-
tion form, applications should include a statement of
the earliest date on which the applicant would be avail-
able to start work; a CV and a covering letter explain-
ing their suitability for the post; and contact details
(including email addresses) of 2-3 referees who would
be available to provide references before interview.
Informal enquiries may be made to Professor Jeremy
Field (j.eld@sussex.ac.uk).
Closing date for applications: 17 July 2013
Interviews will be held between 7 and 16 August 2013
For full details and how to apply see http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/aboutus/jobs/204 The University of
Sussex is committed to equality of opportunity
J.Field@sussex.ac.ukUTexas Austin LabTech
HostParasiteEvolution
HHMI & Univ. of Texas at Austin: laboratory techni-
cian position in host-parasite interactions
The laboratory of Dr. Daniel Bolnick at UT Austin,
supported by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
seeks an organized and experienced individual to
ll a laboratory technician position studying host-
parasite interactions. The technician will be expected
to work with lab members to carry out assays of
three-spine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) resis-
tance/tolerance to a tapeworm parasite. This is part
of a study of the genetic basis of parasite resistance.
The technician will also be asked to assist with dis-
secting specimens, ow cytometry assays of immune
function, ELISAs, and RNAseq and SNP genotyping
using RADseq genotyping. Applicants should have lab
experience with molecular genetics, including DNA ex-
traction, quantitation, PCR, and sequencing, and fa-
miliarity with sterile techniques. Preference is given to
applicants who also have some laboratory experience
with ow cytometry or ELISAs, RNAseq, or bioinfor-
matics. Strong organizational skills are a necessity, as
are a strong work ethic and the ability to work well
with others.
The Bolnick lab's research focuses on evolutionary
ecology of trait variation within populations, includ-
ing variation in diet, courtship traits, and immune
function. More information on research in the lab
can be found at https://webspace.utexas.edu/dib73/-
Bolnicklab/Bolnicklab.htm?uniq=3D5ptsas . Mini-
mum qualications: A Bachelor's or Master's degree in
an appropriate eld of evolutionary biology or molec-
ular ecology/genetics and the demonstrated ability
to perform the molecular laboratory techniques listed
above.
To apply, pleases send a pdf containing a coverletter, a
CV, and names and contact information for two recom-
mendation letter writers to Dr. Daniel Bolnick (dan-
blonick@austin.utexas.edu). Previous experience in the
laboratory should be highlighted in both the cover let-
ter and letters of recommendation wherever possible.
Questions may be directed to the same email address.
Applications will be reviewed starting July 1, 2013,
though additional applications may be considered af-
ter this deadline until the position is lled.48 EvolDir July 1, 2013
This is a full-time position, initially appointed for a pe-
riod of 12 months at a starting salary of approximately
$2,500 per month (depending on qualications), plus
benets. The research technician will be an employee
of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The position
duration could be extended, depending on performance
and availability of research funds. The chosen applicant
will ideally start work in late August or early Septem-
ber. Applications will be accepted until the position
has been lled.
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Early Career Scientist Howard Hughes Medical Insti-
tute
Associate Professor Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0990 University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu https://webspace.utexas.edu/-
dib73/TheBolnickLab/Home.html danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
UTexas Austin LabTech
SticklebackEvolution
University of Texas/Austin: laboratory technician po-
sition
The laboratory of Dr. Daniel Bolnick, in the Section
of Integrative Biology at the University of Texas at
Austin, seeks an organized and experienced individual
to ll a laboratory technician position. The technician
will be expected to work with lab members to carry out
morphological measurements, stable isotope analysis,
and genotyping of three-spine stickleback (Gasterosteus
aculeatus), as part of an NSF-funded project studying
the evolution of assortative mating. Applicants should
have lab experience with molecular genetics, including
DNA extraction, quantitation, PCR, and sequencing.
Strong organizational skills and a good work ethic are
necessary, as is an ability to work with others.
The Bolnick lab's research focuses on evolutionary
ecology of trait variation within populations, includ-
ing variation in diet, courtship traits, and immune
function. More information on research in the lab
can be found at https://webspace.utexas.edu/dib73/-
Bolnicklab/Bolnicklab.htm?uniq=3D5ptsas . Mini-
mum qualications: A Bachelor's or Master's degree in
an appropriate eld of evolutionary biology or molec-ular ecology/genetics and the demonstrated ability
to perform the molecular laboratory techniques listed
above.
To apply, pleases send a pdf containing a coverletter, a
CV, and names and contact information for two recom-
mendation letter writers to Dr. Daniel Bolnick (dan-
blonick@austin.utexas.edu). Previous experience in the
laboratory should be highlighted in both the cover let-
ter and letters of recommendation wherever possible.
Questions may be directed to the same email address.
Applications will be reviewed starting July 1, 2013,
though additional applications may be considered af-
ter this deadline until the position is lled.
This is a full-time position, initially appointed for a pe-
riod of 6 months at a starting salary of approximately
$2,500 per month (depending on qualications), plus
benets. The position duration could be extended,
depending on performance and availability of research
funds. The chosen applicant will ideally start work in
late August or early September. Applications will be
accepted until the position has been lled.
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Early Career Scientist Howard Hughes Medical Insti-
tute
Associate Professor Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0990 University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu https://webspace.utexas.edu/-
dib73/TheBolnickLab/Home.html danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
UVienna
ProfSystematicEvolutionaryBotany
The Faculty of Life Sciences of the University of Vienna
announces the position of a
Full Professor of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany
(full time, permanent position under private law). The
University of Vienna intends to increase the number
of women on its faculty, particularly in high-level posi-
tions, and therefore specically invites applications by
women. Among equally qualied applicants women will
receive preferential consideration.
Applicants should have a strong record in studying pro-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
cesses and mechanisms of plant or fungal evolution with
emphasis on phylogenetics, systematics or on genetic,
genomic, biogeographic or ecological aspects of specia-
tion.
Candidates should be interested in interdisciplinary re-
search together with major branches of organismic bi-
ology within the Faculty of Life Sciences.
The professorship will be part of the Faculty Center of
Biodiversity. The center oers excellent research and
teaching conditions including a well equipped set of
molecular, cytogenetic, phytochemical, and morpholog-
ical laboratories; IT facilities; an extensive botanical
library; a herbarium (1.4 million sheets); a Botanical
Garden (Core Facility of the Faculty; 8ha, with more
than 11,000 species); and access to a tropical research
station (La Gamba, Costa Rica).
The candidate is expected to teach systematic and
evolutionary botany at all academic levels. Excellent
teaching and mentoring skills are necessary and should
be documented in the application. Successful can-
didates will have the following qualications: - PhD
and post-doctoral experience at a university or other
research institution. (Austrian or equivalent interna-
tional academic degree in the relevant eld) - Out-
standing research and publication record, with an ex-
cellent reputation as an active member in the inter-
national academic community (Habilitation (venia do-
cendi) or equivalent international qualication in the
relevant eld is desirable) - Experience in designing,
procuring and directing major research projects, and
willingness and ability to assume the responsibility of
team leadership - Experience in university teaching,
and willingness and ability to teach at all curricular
levels, to supervise theses, and to further the work of
junior academic colleagues The University of Vienna ex-
pects the successful candidate to acquire, within three
years, prociency in German sucient for teaching in
Bachelor programmes and participation in committees
The University of Vienna oers - Attractive terms
and conditions of employment with a negotiable and
performance-related salary, associated with a retire-
ment fund - a \start-up package" for the initiation of
research projects - an attractive and dynamic research
location in a city with a high quality of life and in a
country with excellent research funding provision - Sup-
port for relocation to Vienna, where appropriate
Candidates should send an application containing at
least the following documents: - Academic curriculum
vitae - Brief description of current research interests
and research plans for the immediate future - List of
publications together with a) specication of ve key
publications judged by the applicant to be particularlyrelevant to the advertised professorship together with
an explanation of their relevance b) PDF versions of
these ve publications provided either as email attach-
ments or through URLs of downloadable copies (PDF
versions of monographs need only be provided if easily
available.) - List of talks given, including detailed infor-
mation about invited plenaries at international confer-
ences - List of projects supported by third-party funds
- Short survey of previous academic teaching and list
of supervised PhD theses
University professors will be classied according to the
Collective Bargaining Agreement for University Sta
into the salary group A1. The salary will be individu-
ally negotiated under consideration of the previous ca-
reer development and in case of an appointment from
abroad of the dierent tax situation.
Applications, written in English and in electronic form
(preferably as one PDF le), should be sent to the
Dean of the Faculty of Life Sciences of the Univer-
sity of Vienna, O. Univ.-Prof. Dr. Horst Seidler,
(dorothea.prenner@univie.ac.at), no later than Septem-
ber 25th, 2013 with reference 20/6-2013.
gerald.schneeweiss@univie.ac.at
UppsalaU EvolutionaryEcol
Senior Lecturer in Biology with specialization in Ani-
mal Ecology
2013-06-28
at the Department of Ecology and Genetics Application
no later than 2013-08-29. UFV-PA 2013/1812
The Department of Ecology and Genetics is included
in the Evolutionary Biology Centre, one of the world's
major centers for evolutionary biology research and ed-
ucation. The program in Animal Ecology has about
60 employees and a focus on empirical studies of
natural model systems in the eld and in the labo-
ratory environment (http://www.ebc.uu.se/forskning/-
IEG/zooeko/), but have recently also started purely
theoretical research. The Department of Ecology and
Genetics have programs in Plant Ecology and Evolu-
tion, Limnology and Evolutionary Biology, enabling in-
terdisciplinary collaborations.
Description of the subject area: The subject comprises
mainly empirically and theoretically oriented animal
ecology and evolutionary ecology, for example studies of50 EvolDir July 1, 2013
speciation, conservation biology, life history evolution,
sexual selection and sexual conict in animals, but the
position is not limited to these areas. Teaching involves
teaching at the undergraduate and graduate level in bi-
ology, evolution and ecology.
Duties: The position includes teaching, research and
administration. Teaching duties include course re-
sponsibility, course administration and supervision of
second- and third-cycle students. The holder shall also
keep abreast of developments within the subject area
and the developments in wider community that are sig-
nicant for the work at the university.
Qualications Required: According to the Swedish
Higher Education Ordinance those qualied for ap-
pointment as senior lecturer are persons who have
demonstrated teaching expertise and been awarded a
PhD or has the corresponding research competence or
some other professional expertise that is of value in view
of the subject matter of the post and the duties that
it will involve. According to the appointment regula-
tions of Uppsala University to be eligible for appoint-
ment as senior lecturer applicants also must have com-
pleted teacher training of relevance to operations at the
University, comprising ten weeks, or have acquired the
equivalent knowledge. If special circumstances apply,
this training for teachers in higher education may be
completed during the rst year of employment. A gen-
eral eligibility requirement is that the applicant must
possess the personal capabilities necessary to carry out
fully the duties of the appointment.
Documented ability to teach in Swedish and/or English
is a requirement unless special reasons prevail.
An applicant who is oered an employment as senior
lecturer can be promoted to professor if he/she has ap-
plied for this, is qualied for such a post, and moreover
has been deemed suitable on the basis of the specic
criteria established by the faculty board.
Assessment Criteria/Ranking Research Expertise and
Teaching Expertise: The ranking of eligible applicants
will be based primarily on research and teaching exper-
tise, which will be given equal importance.
Research expertise comprises research merits including
research merits obtained outside the academy, which
includes for example technology development and in-
novation ability. In assessing research expertise special
weight will be attached to research merits in animal
ecology and evolutionary ecology.
In assessing research expertise research quality must be
the prime consideration. The scope of research, pri-
marily in regard to depth and breadth, must also be af-
forded consideration. Furthermore, consideration mustbe given to the capacity to plan, initiate, lead, and
develop research and education in the third cycle, the
ability to acquire funding for research in competition,
as well as the demonstrated capacity to interact with
others both within academia and in the wider commu-
nity.
As much attention shall be given to the assessment of
teaching expertise as to the assessment of research ex-
pertise. Teaching expertise comprises educational and
teaching qualications. This expertise can have been
achieved outside the academy through supervision, in-
ternal training, mentoring programs, etc.
In assessing teaching expertise teaching quality must be
the prime consideration. The scope of teaching expe-
rience, in terms of both breadth and depth, must also
be aorded consideration. Furthermore, consideration
must be given to the capacity to plan, initiate, lead, and
develop teaching and instruction, as well as the ability
to connect research to teaching in respect to research
in the subject at hand, subject didactics, as well as
teaching and learning in higher education. The ability
to interact concerning issues of teaching and learning
in higher education with actors inside and outside the
University is also included in teaching expertise.
All merits must be documented in a manner that makes
it possible to assess
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
VolFieldAssist Panama
Subject Header: Job:VolFieldAssist.Panama.
A volunteer eld assistant is required to help with
a eld-based project on social behaviour in social
wasps. The position is a fantastic opportunity to
gain tropical eld experience working in a vibrant re-
search group, from the Institute of Zoology, Zoologi-
cal Society of London (http://www.zsl.org/science/ioz-
sta-students/bell,2041,AR.html) and the University
of Bristol (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/people/-
seirian-r-sumner/index.html). The project is concerned
with the evolution of castes (queens and workers) in
Polistes paper wasps. These are a well-studied genus
of social insects representing the early stages of socialJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
evolution where castes lack morphological dierences,
but have clear behavioural roles. Our study species is
the tropical Polistes canadensis, found in Central and
South America. It builds small nests (c20-60 females)
that lack an envelope, so individually marked wasps
can be easily observed and castes can be manipulated.
The 2013 eld site is based near the Smithsonian Trop-
ical Research Station at Galatea, Colon, Republic of
Panama and the eld season will run from the end of
June until the beginning of August.
The work involves marking wasps, conducting censuses
and behavioural observations and simple manipulation
experiments. Assistants are generally expected to be
graduates with a good degree in the biological sciences,
background in and keen interest in behavioural ecol-
ogy and/or social evolution. Experience gained on the
project will be especially useful for those about to com-
mence a eld-based MSc or PhD project. Applicants
should be t, enthusiastic, hard working, and happy
with living shared accommodation and working in un-
comfortable conditions. Previous experience of working
on social insects and/or in the tropics would be an ad-
vantage. A clean driving license and some basic knowl-
edge of Spanish is also desirable. The applicant shouldbe comfortable and must be able to commit to the full
eld season. NB these wasps do sting if provoked!
All work-related costs in Panama will be paid, includ-
ing accommodation. In addition the assistant will re-
ceive a minimum of $500 towards travel costs (e.g. air
ticket). More details are available from Dr Seirian Sum-
ner (seirian.sumner@bristol.ac.uk) and/or Emily Bell
(emily.bell@ioz.ac.uk). Applications should include CV
(with email addresses for two referees) and a covering
letter explaining why you would like to work on the
Project. Applications should be submitted by e-mail
to Emily Bell by Thursday 20th June 2013. Shortlisted
applicants will be notied by email, and will be invited
for interview either in person or over skype/phone soon
afterwards. Applicants must be available to travel to
Panama immediately after the conrmation of their ap-
pointment from their skype/phone interview.
The Zoological Society of London is incorporated by
Royal Charter Principal Oce England. Company
Number RC000749 Registered address: Regent's Park,
London, England NW1 4RY Registered Charity in Eng-
land and Wales no. 208728
Emily.Bell@ioz.ac.uk
Other
Australia VolunteerFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
BioNames database . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Biodiversity Heritage Library . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
CanadianInstEcolEvol CallForWorkinGroupProposals
53
EurSocEvolBiol Outreach fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Gene network comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
HoneyBee LinkageDisequilibrium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Imaging system need . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
KyotoPrize 2013 for MasatoshiNei . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
LGBTQ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
MacOSX Java update may break BEAST TracerFigTree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
MacOSX Java update may break BEAST Tracer
FigTree txt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Malaysia VolFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
PHYLIP clustering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
PuertoRico FieldVolunteers AnoleEvolution . . . . . . . 57
Reference selection AlleleFreq . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Software PartitionFinder update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
mtDNA div high Nuclear low . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
nextRAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Australia VolunteerFieldAssist52 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Volunteer eld assistant for Behavioural Ecology in
Australia. August-September 2013.
We are seeking a eld assistant for six weeks (August
11-September 21) to help with a research on brood par-
asitism in yellow rumped thornbills. These birds are
hosts of cuckoos and my PhD focuses on how they de-
fend from parasitism. I perform eld experiments in
their nests and do behavioral observations so it would
be great for people with interests in ethology. Fieldwork
will be in Canberra (Campbell park), biking distance
from the center of the city. The main duties are nding
nests and monitoring them. Banding will be performed
occasionally. We will provide AUD 2000 for accommo-
dation and food, but assistants must cover their trip to
Canberra. The work is not physically demanding, but
enthusiasm, patience and work ethic are a must.
If you are interested please send me an email (med-
ina.iliana@gmail.com) with relevant eld experience
and a CV.
Best, Iliana Medina PhD candidate Australian National
University email: medina.iliana@gmail.com http://-
www.wix.com/medinailiana/ilianamedina#! Iliana
Medina <medina.iliana@gmail.com >
BioNames database
I've released BioNames http://bionames.org , a
database of taxonomic names for animals (and other
organisms covered by the ICZN code). This database
was an entry in the Encyclopedia of Life's Computa-
tional Data Challenge http://eol.org/info/323 BioN-
ames' key features include:
1. Names from the Index of Organism Names (ION)
database are linked (wherever possible) to the primary
literature, much of which is freely viewable in BioNames
2. Names are linked to the GBIF and NCBI (GenBank)
classications for ease of navigation
3. Where available, images of the corresponding taxa
from EOL are displayed
4. For taxa in the NCBI classication the database dis-
plays available phylogenies from the PhyLoTA database
In addition to exploring BioNames itself (http://-
bionames.org ) you can get background on the project
on the iPhylo blog http://iphylo.blogspot.co.uk/-
search?q=3Dbionames Feedback is welcome.
RegardsRod
Roderic Page Professor of Taxonomy Institute of Bio-
diversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine
College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences Gra-
ham Kerr Building University of Glasgow Glasgow G12
8QQ, UK
Email: r.page@bio.gla.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 330
4778 Fax: +44 141 330 2792 Skype: rdmpage
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/rdmpage
Twitter: http://twitter.com/rdmpage Blog:
http://iphylo.blogspot.com Home page: http://-
taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/rod.html Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roderic D.M.Page
Citations: http://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=-
3Den&user=3D4Z5WABAAAAAJ ORCID id: http:/-
/orcid.org/0000-0002-7101-9767 r.page@bio.gla.ac.uk
Biodiversity Heritage Library
The Biodiversity Heritage Library <http://-
www.biodiversitylibrary.org/ >
Do you need access to taxonomic and biodiversity lit-
erature for your research? Do you need to review a
natural history rare book but dont have access to a
library collection that owns it? Do you need to re-
trieve a species bibliography listing citations of species
names occurrences throughout the published literature
record? Do you want to be able to download copies of
these books to your personal computer? Do you want
all of this for free?
Check out the Biodiversity Heritage Library <http:/-
/www.biodiversitylibrary.org/ >, an open access dig-
ital library for biodiversity literature. BHL pro-
vides free, full-text access to over 114,000 nat-
ural history books (amounting to over 40 mil-
lion pages) digitized from the collections of its 15
members libraries <http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/-
BHL+Consortium+Membership >and six global part-
ner projects <http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/About
>. BHL collections are truly comprehensive, spanning
the 15th-21st centuries, and including some of the rarest
titles in the natural history canon.
You can download the full PDF <https://-
docs.google.com/document/d/1XXFm4MsAEX-
3iZq7UlZDGvxkZHvFztf0gcINEfDU27s/-
pub#h.xh7tgdhetmkx >of any book in BHL,
as well as create custom PDFs <https://-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
docs.google.com/document/d/1XXFm4MsAEX-
3iZq7UlZDGvxkZHvFztf0gcINEfDU27s/-
pub#h.xn37bnfgusb5 >from select pages. Us-
ing BHLs taxonomic intelligence service (Ad-
vanced Search \Scientic Names < http://-
www.biodiversitylibrary.org/advsearch >), you can
search for a specic scientic name and have a list
of all mentions of that name throughout the BHL
corpus returned to you as a species bibliography. Want
something that BHL doesnt have? You can submit
a request <http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/-
contact#/request >for the item to be scanned, free of
charge to you!* Need access to scientic illustrations?
BHLs Flickr account <http://www.ickr.com/-
photos/biodivlibrary/sets >provides access to over
70,000 illustrations gleaned from the BHL collection,
all made freely available under Creative Commons
licenses.
Check out our collections today <http://-
www.biodiversitylibrary.org/ >! Stay in touch
with project updates via our Newsletter <http:/-
/biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Newsletters >, Quarterly
Reports <http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Reports >,
Blog <http://blog.biodiversitylibrary.org/ >, Face-
book <https://www.facebook.com/BioDivLibrary >,
and Twitter <https://twitter.com/BioDivLibrary >.
Have questions, comments, or suggestions? Contact us
today <http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/contact/
>!
* Copyright and content availability restrictions ap-
ply. Learn more <http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/-
Guidelines+for+Submitting+Scanning+Requests >.
PS: I will be at SMBE meeting in Chicago in July and
please ask me in person if you are interested in learn-
ing more about this useful tool for teaching and pub-
lications. BHL collections are copyright free and free
access!
Tomoko Steen
*Tomoko Y. Steen, Ph.D. * *The Georgetown Uni-
versity, School of Medicine Department of Mi-
crobiology and Immunology *Associate Editor**,
Journal of Heredity (Oxford University Press)*
http://www.theaga.org/editors.php Tomoko Steen
<tomoko.y.steen@gmail.com >
CanadianInstEcolEvol
CallForWorkinGroupProposalsCIEE Thematic Programs
The Canadian Institute of Ecology and Evolution seeks
proposals for Thematic Programs (Working Groups) to
be staged over the following 12 months. Thematic Pro-
gram proposals should outline a plan to address signif-
icant questions in ecology and evolution through syn-
thesis and integration of existing data (e.g., quantita-
tive research synthesis, compilation and meta-analysis
of existing data sets, etc.)
For further details, please see: http://ciee-icee.com/
Thanks,
Andrew Simons & Mark Forbes Carleton University Ot-
tawa, Ontario
Andrew.Simons@carleton.ca
EurSocEvolBiol Outreach fund
*ESEB Outreach Fund*
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB) welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. With a total annual budget of 15000 Euro, the
goal of this initiative is to improve public knowledge
about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educa-
tional initiatives that promote evolution, development
of evolutionary material (books, lms, websites) in-
tended for a general audience, public outreach seminars,
public exhibitions, etc.
The application form can be found on www.eseb.org
(click on the \Outreach Fund" link). Applications will
be accepted twice yearly (deadlines March 15, Septem-
ber 15) and should be submitted by email to Ute
Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach).
Ute Friedrich ESEB Oce Manager Le Biophore Uni-
versity of Lausanne CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland
Email:oce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology
www.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
Gene network comparison54 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Dear EvolDir,
I have generated several gene networks and want to
test if they are statistically dierent from each other,
of from a random network. Does anyone know of a
paper or software that describes such a test?
This problem is reminiscent of comparing two phy-
logenetic topologies - for example, via a Shimodaira-
Hasegawa test. In my case, the topologies are gene co-
citation networks inferred using GENOMATIX PATH-
WAY SYSTEM software. Unlike phylogenetic topolo-
gies, these networks are not bifurcating, but they do
have nodes and edges. I did locate one paper on this
topic (http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/14/-
94) but it is not obvious how to implement the test.
Thanks for any suggestions.
Graham
Graham Thompson Assistant Professor Western Uni-
versity, Biology 1151 Richmond Street North London,
Ontario N6A 5B7 CANADA
519 661 2111 (ext 86570) 519 615 6066 (iPhone) gra-
ham.thompson@uwo.ca http://www.uwo.ca/biology/-
Faculty/thompson graham.thompson@uwo.ca
HoneyBee LinkageDisequilibrium
I am studying the population genetics of honey bees us-
ing 6 microsatellite markers chosen from dierent chro-
mosomes and screened across 21 populations sampled
across regions of India, as part of the analysis i have
calculated Linkage Disequilibrium. For marker pairs i
have got chi-square values as innite and p-values as
highly signicant. initially i taught it to be some cal-
culation error but i am surprised to nd out same out
put across the three species. can any one explain why i
am getting this innite value. is this value expected or
is there anything wrong in my data. kindly help me to
resolve this issue.
Thank you and regards
omkar
K.Omkar Babu Senior Research Fellow Institute of
Biotechnology UAS Dharwad INDIA
Omkar Babu <omkarzf@gmail.com >Imaging system need
Dear List,
Currently, I am in the process of developing a prototype
of an aordable (US$15,000-20,000) fully automated 3D
imaging system that can accurately obtain 3D surface
renderings including color of small 3D objects such as
the head of a fruit y, the proboscis of a buttery, and
other micrometer size objects. This system will auto-
matically image the object from all sides, extract the
surface data and stores it as a single object. In order
to obtain a grant for the development of this system,
I need to access whether there would be a market for
such a system. To help me with that, could you, if you,
your lab or institution would be a potential customer,
please let me know (kim@kimvdlinde.com).
Feel free to forward this to other lists where people
could be interested.
Thanks,
Kim
Kim van der Linde <kim@kimvdlinde.com >
KyotoPrize 2013 for MasatoshiNei
I would like to share with you the news that Masatoshi
Nei at Penn State has been honored as the recipient of
the 2013 Kyoto Prize in the eld of Biological Sciences
(Evolution, Behavior, Ecology, Environment) from the
Inamori Foundation.
According to the Foundation, \Dr. Masatoshi Nei made
it possible to discuss evolutionary divergence, genetic
diversity, and the mode of selection on genes in a quan-
titative manner by devising diverse statistical methods
such as Nei1s genetic distance, and applying them to
molecular data. Using these methods, Dr. Nei1s re-
search has yielded important contributions to molecu-
lar evolutionary biology, as well as many other academic
disciplines including ecology and conservation biology."
Some of his achievements can be seen from
the website \Masatoshi Nei ' Google Scholar Ci-
tations <http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
VxOmZDgAAAAJ&hl=en >." The total number of ci-
tations for him is about 176,000. His papers are labeled
as Evolution, Evolutionary biology, Molecular evolu-
tion, Population genetics, and Phylogenetics, and in all
of these categories, he is at the top.
Shozo Yokoyama Emory University
\Yokoyama, Shozo" <syokoya@emory.edu >
LGBTQ
Folks,
I'm collaborating on a survey of the experiences of
LGBTQ individuals working in science, tech, engineer-
ing, and math, and I'm hoping that the EvolDir com-
munity will help us share it with as many people as
possible. We're using a \snowball sample" distribution
model, in which we as respondents to help distribute
links to the survey to their own professional and per-
sonal networks, so we can hear from as many people as
possible.
There's more information below my signature,
or you can go directly to the survey website,
www.queerstem.org, to learn more, take the survey, and
nd out how to help spread the word.
thanks! Jeremy Yoder
|- Jeremy B. Yoder Postdoctoral Associate University
of Minnesota Department of Plant Biology
www.jeremybyoder.com jbyoder@umn.edu
Sent with Sparrow (http://-
www.sparrowmailapp.com/?sig)
In the elds of science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM), the social experiences of lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgendered, or queer (LGBTQ) pro-
fessionals are often overlooked. Those of us who work
in STEM research or teaching know that LGBTQ col-
leagues are out there, if we know where to look, but we
know very little about the LGBTQ folks who work in
STEM, as a group. Basic, general information regrad-
ing the following questions is hard to come by:
What do we study? What kinds of institutions do we
work at? What kinds of communities do we live in?
What degree of acceptance and support have we found
in our chosen career elds?
We are conducting a new, nationwide survey to begin
to answer some of these questions, by eliciting feed-back from as large a sample of LGBTQ folks working
in STEM elds as possible. By participating, you will
contribute to eorts to document the contributions of
LGBTQ individuals to STEM elds and inform advo-
cacy eorts to improve occupational experiences.
Although we welcome as much feedback as possible,
please note that this survey is primarily targeted to-
ward individuals who have completed an initial Bach-
elor's or Technical degree and are working in a STEM
eld within or outside of academia. Undergraduate ex-
periences are unique and several quality studies exist
regarding LGBTQ identity across elds of study at the
postsecondary level{with this survey we aim to ll a
dierent gap in the eld.
The survey should take about 15-20 minutes to com-
plete, and will ask about your research, your career
path, your gender identity and sexual orientation, and
your experience at the institution where you work and
the community in which you live.
Thank you in advance for your valuable feedback!
Take the survey here: http://www.queerstem.org/-
p/take-survey.html jbyoder@gmail.com jbyo-
der@gmail.com
MacOSX Java update may break
BEAST Tracer FigTree
Dear All,
Please ignore if you are not using Mac OS X.
It appears Apple have corrected their revision to x this
issue. If you update now then FigTree, Tracer, BEAST
will work. If you have updated Java earlier today or
yesterday then you will need to download the new up-
dater and install it.
To check if you have the newer or older (broken) up-
date, open Terminal.app and type:
java -version
If you see this number:
build 1.6.0 51-b11-457-11M4509
You have the new and working version. If you see '4508'
at the end of this number then you have the older ver-
sion and you need to re-update the update.
Download the update from here (but only if you see
4508 in the version number):56 EvolDir July 1, 2013
http://support.apple.com/kb/DL1572 Andrew
On 21 Jun 2013, at 14:17, Andrew Rambaut
<a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >wrote:
>Dear all, > > This is a warning that the latest
update to Java for Mac OS X released >yesterday
('Java for OS X 2013-004') will stop the current ver-
sion of >most of the GUI versions of programs in the
BEAST/FigTree family from >working. This includes
BEAUti, BEAST, FigTree, Tracer etc. > > The x is
relatively straight forward but it will take a few days >
to test everything and package it all up. In the mean-
time, you may >want to consider holding o from
installing this update. The >update xes some se-
curity issues with using the Java Applet plugin >for
web browsers which is something that is probably not
a good >idea to use anyway. > > The issue is derived
from the programs using a technically incorrect >way
of initialising the user interface that up until this point
has>worked ne. It is possible therefore that this is-
sue could occur on >other platforms in future so all
versions will be updated. > > Thanks, >Andrew > >
Andrew Rambaut Institute of Evolutionary Biology
University of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories Edin-
burgh EH9 3JT EMAIL - a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk TEL -
+44 131 6508624
Andrew Rambaut <a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >Andrew
Rambaut <a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >
MacOSX Java update may break
BEAST Tracer FigTree txt
Dear All,
Please ignore if you are not using Mac OS X.
It appears Apple have corrected their revision to x this
issue. If you update now then FigTree, Tracer, BEAST
will work. If you have updated Java earlier today or
yesterday then you will need to download the new up-
dater and install it.
To check if you have the newer or older (broken) up-
date, open Terminal.app and type:
java -version
If you see this number:
build 1.6.0 51-b11-457-11M4509
You have the new and working version. If you see '4508'
at the end of this number then you have the older ver-sion and you need to re-update the update.
Download the update from here (but only if you see
4508 in the version number):
http://support.apple.com/kb/DL1572 Andrew
On 21 Jun 2013, at 14:17, Andrew Rambaut
<a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >wrote:
>Dear all, > > This is a warning that the latest
update to Java for Mac OS X released >yesterday
('Java for OS X 2013-004') will stop the current ver-
sion of >most of the GUI versions of programs in the
BEAST/FigTree family from >working. This includes
BEAUti, BEAST, FigTree, Tracer etc. > > The x is
relatively straight forward but it will take a few days >
to test everything and package it all up. In the mean-
time, you may >want to consider holding o from
installing this update. The >update xes some se-
curity issues with using the Java Applet plugin >for
web browsers which is something that is probably not
a good >idea to use anyway. > > The issue is derived
from the programs using a technically incorrect >way
of initialising the user interface that up until this point
has>worked ne. It is possible therefore that this is-
sue could occur on >other platforms in future so all
versions will be updated. > > Thanks, >Andrew > >
Andrew Rambaut Institute of Evolutionary Biology
University of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories Edin-
burgh EH9 3JT EMAIL - a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk TEL -
+44 131 6508624
a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk
Malaysia VolFieldAssist
Subject Header: VolFieldAssist.Malaysia.Job
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT needed for 6 weeks
starting mid Aug, for study of hover wasp behavioural
ecology in peninsular Malaysia (note: these are small
wasps that rarely sting, with average colony sizes <5
individuals). The work will involve helping a PhD stu-
dent to census and observe colonies, and collect wasps
for genetic analysis.
The successful applicant must be prepared to work
hard and have an interest in behavioural/evolutionary
biology and enthusiasm for eldwork. A driving li-
cense is advantageous and, because the work involves
recording colour marks on individual animals, the job
would not be suitable for someone who is colour-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
blind! For further details of the research that we do,
see: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/ Accom-
modation will be provided, and air fare (from the UK)
will be reimbursed on successful completion of the eld
trip, with the applicant needing to pay for only their
own food/personal expenses, which are relatively cheap
in Malaysia. Accommodation will be a room in a small
at- relatively good for tropical research (shower, cook-
ing facilities, TV etc.), with the apartment shared with
the female PhD student. The eld site is in a small
village which is a centre for bird-watchers.
APPLICATIONS PROCEDURE
Applicants should send a covering letter and a
CV, including contact details (including e-mail ad-
dresses/telephone nos.) for the applicant and 2-3 refer-
ees who would be available to provide references as soon
as possible. Applicants must be available for interview
in the UK during June or July. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is lled.
Applications should be sent to:
Professor Jeremy Field,
School of Life Sciences,
John Maynard Smith Building
University of Sussex
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.
Or e-mail your application as a single Word document
to: j.eld@sussex.ac.uk AND l.holt@sussex.ac.uk
Lauren Holt <L.Holt@sussex.ac.uk >
PHYLIP clustering
Dear EvolDir,
I have reached a problem I think is driven by the
missing data structure in my data. I am attempting
to use clustering (PHYLIP) to demonstrate that sin-
gle genome genotypes we have obtained from parasites
within infections are more related to one-another than
genotypes from the pathogen population in other pa-
tients from the same region (i.e. are parasites within
infections are more related to one-another than para-
sites between infections). There is understandably large
scale random dropout of alleles in the single cell data
(about half the SNPs called per cell, though quite ran-
domly distributed), and near complete data from thebetween infection data (not single cell genotypes). Us-
ing fairly standard tree generation methods (dnadist
(Jukes-Cantor) and UPGMA tree from neighbor in
PHYLIP) the resulting trees show a great degree of
fragmentation at the tips of branches which contain sin-
gle genome genotyping giving the suggestion that there
is quite a degree of variation in these infections. When
I inspect the data manually there are no dierences be-
tween these genotypes, aside from the patterns of miss-
ing data between them. What is the most appropriate
way of dealing with such data? Given the random na-
ture of allelic dropout removing SNPs which show large
amounts of missing data would substantially impact the
size of my dataset.
Many Thanks for any assistance
Ian Cheeseman
ianc@txbiomedgenetics.org
PuertoRico FieldVolunteers
AnoleEvolution
Field Volunteer Needed for Anole Research in Puerto
Rico
I am looking for two eld assistants to survey popula-
tions of Anolis cristatellus in Puerto Rico from July 21 -
August 15, 2013. This project is part of my dissertation
research at the University of Massachusetts Boston.
Our activities will involve habitat surveys and morpho-
logical data collection. Daily activities include search-
ing for and capturing lizards in both forest and human
dominated habitats (i.e. suburban neighborhoods). We
will work long hours on most days (beginning 7-8am),
with about half of the day in the eld and half indoors
collecting data. Assistants will also have the opportu-
nity to attend the Caribbean and Latin American Boid
Meeting, which will be held in Puerto Rico while we
are there. Applicants should be physically t and be
prepared for very hot and humid work conditions. Ap-
plicant must be able to work independently and be com-
fortable handling lizards, should be enthusiastic about
reptiles, and have a good work ethic. Ideal applicants
will have research or eld experience with herpetofauna
and be conversational to uent in Spanish. This oppor-
tunity is unpaid, but all expenses (airfare from the US,
food, lodging, and incidentals) will be covered. For
more information about the Revell lab, see: http://-
faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/ If interested, please con-
tact Kristin Winchell: Kristin.Winchell001@umb.edu58 EvolDir July 1, 2013
with a brief letter describing why you are interested
in this position and any relevant research experience
along with your CV and 2 professional references that
I may contact by email. I will review applications as
they arrive until the positions are lled.
kmwinchell@gmail.com
Reference selection AlleleFreq
Hi all!
I'm afraid my memory isn't helping me, and my google-
fu isn't up to the ask of replacing it. I remember reading
a paper from the 1960's about measuring allele frequen-
cies, and showing that if they are measured before se-
lection is complete then inferences about selection are
biased. Does anyone happen to remember it better than
me?
Thanks in advance.
Bob
{ Bob O'Hara
Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre Senckenber-
ganlage 25 D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Tel: +49 69 798 40226 Mobile: +49 1515
888 5440 WWW: http://www.bik-f.de/-
root/index.php?page id=219 Blog: http://-
blogs.nature.com/boboh Journal of Negative
Results - EEB: www.jnr-eeb.org Bob O'Hara
<bohara@senckenberg.de >
Software DAMBE update
Dear Colleagues,
A number of bug reports have recently come from MAC
users of DAMBE. I have xed them now. Please down-
load and use the new version at:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/-
dambe installation mac.asp 2. Some of the DAMBE
functions that do not run well on MAC is simply
due to the msvcirt.dll le that comes with WINE. I
have added a link in the Mac installation page to a
functional msvcirt.dll le so that you can download andsave to the system32 folder (e.g., '/users/xxia/Wine
Files/drive c/windows/system32'):
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/download/msvcirt.dll
The DAMBE installation page for Mac has been
revised accordingly.
3. Please cite DAMBE with the new citation: Xia, X.
2013. DAMBE5: A comprehensive software package
for data analysis in molecular biology and evolution.
Molecular Biology and Evolution doi: 10.1093/mol-
bev/mst064
Best Xuhua
Xuhua Xia Professor Biology Department Univer-
sity of Ottawa Rm 278 Gendron 30 Marie Curie,
Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel: (613)
562-5800 ext 6886 http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca
http://www.biology.uottawa.ca/details.php?lang=-
3Deng&id=3D31 Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Software PartitionFinder update
Dear all,
We're pleased to announce the release of Partition-
Finder v1.1.1. This version contains a number of ma-
jor improvements over previous versions, including the
ability to rapidly analyse genomic datasets.
PartitionFinder is a program that allows for the com-
bined selection of partitioning schemes and models of
molecular evolution for DNA and amino acid datasets.
It works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
It is available here:
www.robertlanfear.com/partitionnder Version 1.1.1
includes a number of improvements:
* Support for very large datasets (1000s of genes, 1000s
of taxa) * Faster algorithms * Support for partition-
ing scheme searches using RAxML * Improved memory
eciency * Output of the best partitioning scheme in
RAxML format * A number of bug xes and other mi-
nor improvements
A full description of all the methods can be found in
the manual, along with some hints on the best method
to use for datasets of dierent sizes. The methods are
more fully described and compared in an in prep paper.
Please get in touch if you have questions, suggestions,
or comments.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
Yours,
Rob Lanfear & Brett Calcott
{ Rob Lanfear Research Fellow, Ecology, Evolution,
and Genetics, Research School of Biology, Australian
National University
www.robertlanfear.com rob.lanfear@gmail.com
mtDNA div high Nuclear low
Dear colleagues, In one of my datasets I found a strik-
ing pattern of high mtDNA diversity (nice, reticulated
haplotype network; not star-like) but low microsatellite
diversity. In all other cases I'm aware of, the pattern
is reversed because mtDNA drifts faster than nucDNA,
or is selectively swept every now and then. In the quest
to understanding this I'd be curious to read about ex-
amples with a similarly biased diversity pattern (high
mtDNA div but low microsatellite div). I tried liter-
ature data bases but could not nd anything useful.
Adaptive/Selectionist hypotheses are an option, too,
but as my nucDNA is microsatellite this is only sort of
the second route I would follow. Is anyone here aware
of a paper they could send me? (high mtDNA div vs.
low nucDNa div)
Cheers, Robert
rkraus@senckenberg.de
nextRAD
*SNPsaurus announces launch of nextRAD genotyp-
ing**Enables genotyping by sequencing on low input sam-
ples*
May 15, 2013. SNPsaurus, a genomic services company
based in Eugene, Oregon, today announced the launch
of their nextRAD genotyping platform. The nex-
tRAD (Nextera-tagmented reductively-amplied DNA)
marker platform is designed for genotyping large popu-
lations and for samples with limited availability of ge-
nomic DNA.
\The distinguishing feature of nextRAD compared to
other genotyping-by-sequencing methods is that it does
not use restriction enzymes to reduce the complexity
of the genome." said SNPsaurus founder Eric John-
son. \This allows us to make high quality sequencing
libraries that sample thousands to hundreds of thou-
sands of loci across a genome from less than 10 ng total
genomic DNA."
Director of Research Paul Etter said, \We tried to de-
sign nextRAD for the rapidly increasing capabilities of
next-generation sequencers. It has the throughput for
genotyping thousands of samples because of the stream-
lined protocol and the ability to multiplex hundreds of
samples in a lane of a sequencer."
SNPsaurus also unveiled their nextRAD Project Ex-
plorer, at http://snpsaurus.com/project/, an online
tool for exploring the parameters of a genotyping
project, from low-coverage mapping of recombinant in-
bred lines to high-coverage genotyping for creating ge-
netic maps, and getting a project price estimate.
SNPsaurus has licensed nextRAD technology from the
University of Oregon.
*About SNPsaurus*
*SNPsaurus is a privately owned genomic services com-
pany founded in 2013. Based in Eugene, Oregon,
SNPsaurus works with researchers to rapidly provide
high-quality genotyping data.*
*contact:*
*Eric Johnson, founder*
<eric@snpsaurus.com >
PostDocs60 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ArizonaStateU MutationBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . .60
Barcelona ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
BowdoinCollege PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Chile WineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
CzechRep FishEvolutionaryEcolPhysiology . . . . . . . . 63
DukeU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
FloridaStateU EvolBiolBehavEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
GeorgeWashingtonU HumanEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . 65
GhentU PhD Postdoc GeneDuplications . . . . . . . . . . .66
HarvardU Bioinformatics Comput Biol . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
INRA Sophia DNABarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
KielU MicrobialGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
NewYorkU EvolutionarySystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 68
NorthCarolina BehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Omaha MadagascarBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
PennStateU Paleontology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Perth Australia AdaptiveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
RutgersU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
StanfordU PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Switzerland Evolutionarydynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72TexasTechU EvlutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
UBourgogne Fragmentation LandscapeGenetics . . . .73
UCalifornia Berkeley NeanderthalGenomics . . . . . . . 74
UCollege London Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UCollege London EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UCollege London GenomicsOfXenoturbella . . . . . . . . 76
UEdinburgh EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UHouston CiliateMutation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UHouston ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
ULausanne AntEvolution 2pdf 1PhD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
ULausanne OwlPolymorphisms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
UMichigan PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UMontpellier CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UMontpellier HIV Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UPennsylvania EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UPennsylvania EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UPorto LivestockPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UPorto Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
URhodeIsland MicroalgaeBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . .82
USouthFlorida EvolutionAvianDiseases . . . . . . . . . . . .83
ArizonaStateU
MutationBioinformatics
As a follow up to the previous announcement:
I will be at both Evolution 2013 and SMBE 2013 in the
coming weeks if anyone wants to discuss this opening
in person with me.
A copy of the announcement can be found at the fol-
lowing link:
http://www.biodesign.asu.edu/jobs/postdoctoral-
research-associate-2013-06-13-13-51 Reed A.
Cartwright, PhD Assistant Professor of Genomics,
Evolution, and Bioinformatics School of Life Sciences
Center for Evolutionary Medicine and Informatics The
Biodesign Institute Arizona State University - Address:
The Biodesign Institute, PO Box 875301, Tempe, AZ
85287-5301 USA Packages: The Biodesign Institute,
1001 S. McAllister Ave, Tempe, AZ 85287-5301 USA
Oce: Biodesign A-224A, 1-480-965-9949
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE OPEN-
ING
http://www.biodesign.asu.edu/jobs/postdoctoral-
research-associate-2013-06-13-13-51 The Cartwright
Lab at Arizona State University in Tempe, AZ is
seeking a Postdoctoral Research Associate in thearea of Computational/Statistical Genomics to study
evolutionary questions using mutation accumulation
lines of the ciliate, Tetrahymena thermophila. These
lines are being generated as part of an NIH funded
collaboration with the Zufall and Azevedo labs at the
University of Houston.
The Cartwright Lab is part of the Center for Evolu-
tionary Medicine and Informatics (CEMI), one of 10 re-
search centers in the Arizona State University's Biode-
sign Institute. Research in the Cartwright Lab cov-
ers many dierent questions in population genetics and
molecular evolution, at the interface of biology, statis-
tics, and computer science. A majority of our research
involves developing, implementing, and applying novel
methodologies to study genomic datasets.
As part of this project, the Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate is expected to be able to: 1. Assemble the
genomes of the dozens of Tetrahymena thermophila
lines from short-read sequences 2. Develop novel, high-
throughput methodologies to identify de novo muta-
tions by comparing multiple lines 3. Work closely with
collaborators at the University of Houston to develop
statistical methods to estimate the phenotypic eects
of mutations 4. Present the results of research at meet-
ings, in publications, etc.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. in genomics, bioinfor-
matics, or related eld
Desired Qualications: 1. Experience working with mi-
crobial genomes 2. Knowledge of programming lan-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
guages including Python and C++ 3. Knowledge of
statistical methodologies 4. Experience with short-read
sequencing
Application must contain one document which includes
1. Resume/CV 2. Cover Letter 3. Names, addresses,
and phone numbers of three professional references
Deadline for applications is July 21, 2013. Applica-
tions will continue to be accepted and considered until
the job is lled/closed.
For more information see http://cartwrig.ht/-
lab/, http://bchs.uh.edu/ ~ rzufall, and
http://wwworm.biology.uh.edu.
To apply, forward one document that includes a cover
letter, detailed CV, and names of 3 references to
cartwright@asu.edu. Please put the job title in the sub-
ject line of the letter.
Arizona State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. A background check
is required for employment.
Reed A. Cartwright, PhD Assistant Professor of Ge-
nomics, Evolution, and Bioinformatics School of Life
Sciences Center for Evolutionary Medicine and Infor-
matics The Biodesign Institute Arizona State Univer-
sity
Address: The Biodesign Institute, PO Box 875301,
Tempe, AZ 85287-5301 USA Packages: The Biodesign
Institute, 1001 S. McAllister Ave, Tempe, AZ 85287-
5301 USA Oce: Biodesign A-224A, 1-480-965-9949
rcartwri@asu.edu
Barcelona ComparativeGenomics
*Postdoc position in Comparative Genomics in Spain*
I am looking for a highly motivated candidate
that can apply for a postdoctoral fellowship within
the programme alliance4universities at Univer-
sitat Aut onoma de Barcelona (Spain) (http:/-
/www.alliance4universities.eu/a4u/en/content/-
postdoctoral-mobility-0).
The aim of the project is to study the genomic structure
of evolutionary genomic regions in dierent mammalian
species. Interest in evolutionary biology, molecular bi-
ology and cell biology is required. Applicants should
have a PhD in a relevant area (evolutionary biology,
genomics, genetics and cell biology). I am seeking forsomeone with a vivid interest in evolution research and
a strong background in population genetics/ statistical
genetics.
Requirements:
-PhD degree obtained between 01/01/2010 and
15/10/2013.
- Competitve publication record.
- Skills in bioinformatics and/or programming.
Our group works in the elds of comparative genomics,
evolution and chromosomal instability and, in particu-
lar, we are interested in the mechanisms that are driving
karyotype evolution and genomic architecture in mam-
mals. For further information please see our webpage
(http://grupsderecerca.uab.cat/evolgenom/).
The Universitat Aut onoma de Barcelona (UAB) is lo-
cated close to the city of Barcelona and is one of the
major public universities in Spain. The UAB is inter-
nationally acknowledged for its quality and innovation
in research. It coordinates a potent scientic and tech-
nological centre, which comprises all the departments,
science and technology services, research centres, insti-
tutes and university hospitals aliated with the UAB.
Complete application packages, including a CV, a brief
(1-page) statement of research interests, and the names
and e-mail addresses of two referees should be sent to:
Dr. Aurora Ruiz-Herrera
Email:aurora.ruizherrera@uab.cat
Application deadline: 15 June 2013.
{ Aurora Ruiz-Herrera, Ph.D.
Cytology and Histology Unit Dept. Cell Bi-
ology, Physiology and Immunology Universi-
tat Aut onoma de Barcelona Edici C E-08193
Bellaterra, Spain Phone +34935812051 Fax
+34935813357 aurora.ruizherrera@uab.cat http:/-
/grupsderecerca.uab.cat/evolgenom/en http://-
scholar.google.es/citations?sortby=pubdate&hl=-
ca&user=i5EWfDsAAAAJ&view op=list works
Cytogenetics Group Institut de Biotecnologia i de
Biomedicina Universitat Aut onoma de Barcelona
E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain Phone +34935811379
aurora.ruizherrera@uab.cat
\Ruiz-Herrera, A" <aurora.ruizherrera@uab.cat >
BowdoinCollege PopulationBiology62 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Postdoctoral Position in Marine Biology
Bowdoin College invites applications for a one-year Do-
herty Marine Biology Postdoctoral Scholar beginning
September 1, 2013, renewable for a second year. The
Bowdoin Marine Laboratory seeks to build strength in
climate change research of near-shore and coastal sys-
tems. Applicants with physiological, population, or
community approaches to changing environments are
particularly encouraged. Familiarity with bioinformat-
ics and \omic" tools is a plus. The Scholar will maintain
an active research program, participate for one week in
the teaching of an appropriate biology course in the
fall semester, teach either a non-majors course or an
advanced seminar during the spring semester, and su-
pervise undergraduate research at the marine lab dur-
ing the summer and academic year. Bowdoin's Marine
Lab is located at the Coastal Studies Center on Orr's
Island, 20 minutes from campus, and oers access to
a boat and excellent wet laboratory facilities with a
high-capacity, owing-seawater system. The Center in-
cludes 118 acres of forests and elds with 2.5 miles of
marine shoreline. Other research instrumentation avail-
able for use on campus. The annual stipend for this
benets-eligible position is $50,000. Applicants must
have received, or anticipate receiving, a Ph.D. between
September 1, 2007 and September 1, 2013.
Bowdoin College accepts only electronic submissions.
Please visit https://careers.bowdoin.edu to submit let-
ter of application, curriculum vitae, statement of re-
search and teaching interests, and the names and con-
tact information for three references who have agreed
to provide a recommendation.
Review of applications begins immediately and will con-
tinue until the position is lled.
A highly selective liberal arts college on the Maine coast
with a diverse student body made up of 30% students
of color, 4% International students and approximately
15% rst generation college students, Bowdoin College
is committed to equality and is an equal opportunity
employer. We encourage inquiries from candidates who
will enrich and contribute to the cultural and ethnic
diversity of our college. Bowdoin College does not dis-
criminate on the basis of age, race, creed, color, reli-
gion, marital status, gender identity and/or expression,
sexual orientation, veteran status, national origin, or
disability status in employment, or in our education
programs.
Bowdoin College http://www.bowdoin.edu/ Bow-
doin Marine Laboratory at the Coast Studies Cen-
ter http://www.bowdoin.edu/coastal-studies-center/-
facilities/marine-laboratory.shtml Additional ques-
tions can be directed to : Dave Carlon. I start asDirector of the Bowdoin Marine Laboratory on Aug.
5
David B. Carlon
Associate Professor
Mailing address: Biology Department University of
Hawaii at Manoa 2450 Campus Road, Dean Hall, Room
2 Honolulu, Hawaii 96822 U.S.A.
Lab/oce address: Biomedical Sciences A-204
e-mail: carlon@hawaii.edu http://carlonlab.com Oce:
808-956-9523 Lab: 808-956-5999 Fax: 808-956-4745
carlon@hawaii.edu
Chile WineBiodiversity
*Call for a Postdoctoral Position to join the Wine, Bio-
diversity & Climate Change Program*
The Wine, Biodiversity & Climate Change Program is
a scientic initiative of the Institute of Ecology and Bio-
diversity, developing strategies for biodiversity conser-
vation along with Chilean wine industry. The project's
objective is to develop and promote conservation plan-
ning in human dominated ecosystems
*Application Deadline: August 1st, 2013.*
This program was initiated in 2008 to engage wine-
growers in the protection of the Chilean Mediter-
ranean ecoregion, which lacks adequate protection in
the Chilean Protected Area Network, is highly im-
pacted by human activities and contains more than
50% of Chilean vascular plants and vertebrates. Our
primary interest has been to study how this ecosystem
can continue providing ecosystems services to the in-
dustry and the local community today and under future
climate change scenarios. We aim to generate research
led conservation plans promoting stewardship of these
ecosystems by knowledge transfer to wine growers and
local communities.
We are looking for a postdoctoral fellow with exper-
tise in community & landscape ecology, ecosystem ecol-
ogy and/or environmental change and conservation.
The candidate should possess good statistical skills and
GIS modelling experience. Opportunities to participate
in soil microbiology and metagenomics aspects of the
project are possible.
The post will be based at the Instituto de Ciencias Am-
bientales y Evolutivas, Universidad Austral de Chile, inJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
Valdivia, Chile. The candidate will need to be expected
to travel to winegrowing regions of Chile and Santiago
for meetings. The post requires a valid driving license
and a minimum level of Spanish. Additional Spanish
language training will be available.
The position will be initially for one year starting in
September 2013 (negotiable), and renewable depend-
ing on performance (measured in publications), for up
to 3 years.
Applicants should submit:   CV   Certicate of Doc-
toral Degree   Cover Letter describing motivation   Two
letters of recommendation by researchers with extensive
knowledge of the applicant
Recommendation letters and all the other documen-
tation should be sent directly to Dr. Olga Bar-
bosa (olga.barbosa@uach.cl) More info: www.vccb.cl /
www.ieb-chile.cl / olga.barbosa@uach.cl
Dra. Olga Barbosa Laboratorio de Sustentabilidad Ur-
bana y Cambio Global Instituto de Ciencias Ambien-
tales y Evolutivas Avenida Rector Eduardo Morales
Miranda, Edicio Pug n, 3r piso, ocina n ^A307 Uni-
versidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia *56-63-221217*
www.uach.cl Instituto de Ecolog a y Biodiversidad
(IEB) www.ieb-chile.cl www.vccb.cl Olga Barbosa
<olgabarbosa@gmail.com >
CzechRep
FishEvolutionaryEcolPhysiology
A new postdoctoral position in our lab is available for
work with automated respirometry system.
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION FOR 12
MONTHS, FURTHER EXTENSION NEGOTIABLE
TOPIC: Evolutionary ecology of sh: physiological
mechanisms and constraints in the life history evolu-
tion
REICHARD LAB, INSTITUTE OF VERTEBRATE
BIOLOGY ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE
CZECH REPUBLIC
One full-time postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Martin Reichard at the Institute of Vertebrate
Biology, Czech Academy of Sciences, located in Brno,
Czech Republic (http://www.reichardlab.eu). Position
may start as soon as lled; all application submitted
until 14 July 2013 will be fully considered. One year
contract initially, further extension possible.Project will use automated respirometry system (in-
cluding respirometry in a swim tunnel) (Loligo Sys-
tems) to compare individual and population dierences
in annual killish metabolic rates and associate them
with other life history traits measured during a large-
scale common garden experiment. Collaboration on
studies testing the eect of parasites on sh condi-
tion (bitterling sh, annual sh) and their metabolic
rate will be encouraged. Work will be done within the
framework of European Center for Ichthyoparasitology,
funded by Czech Science Foundation.
QUALIFICATIONS - PhD in Biology and experience
with aquatic respirometry is required. SALARY - 44
000 CZK, c. 1800 EUR per month
APPLICATION PROCEDURE V For formal applica-
tions, please submit a CV and explain your previous
work and motivation to apply for this position in your
Cover Letter. For informal enquires and more details,
feel free to email reichard@ivb.cz
Martin Reichard Institute of Vertebrate Biology
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic Kvetna 8,
603 65 Brno Czech Republic www.reichardlab.eu re-
ichard@ivb.cz
DukeU EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Biology at Duke
University
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral (Postdoc-
toral Associate) position to study mechanisms of female
dominance and reproductive skew in meerkats.
Occupational Summary:
A full-time research position, funded by the National
Science Foundation, is immediately available to assist
with an integrative project that combines behavioral,
endocrine, and chemical approaches to study female de-
velopment, with the aim of better understanding the
evolution of female dominance and reproductive skew.
The work is to be conducted partly at Duke University
(http://evolutionaryanthropology.duke.edu/ ) in North
Carolina and partly at the Kalahari Meerkat Project
(http://www.kalahari-meerkats.com/ ) in South Africa.
Applicants should be ready to spend up to six-month
stretches in the eld; eld experience in behavioral
endocrinology is preferred. Experience in analytical
chemistry and other laboratory techniques is desired,
but on-the-job training is available. The opportunity to64 EvolDir July 1, 2013
develop independent research is also available. The ini-
tial appointment is for one year, with subsequent fund-
ing conditional on satisfactory performance. Salary will
be partly based on previous experience and includes
benets.
Qualications:
The successful candidate will have earned a PhD in a
relevant discipline.
Applicants should have a strong background in
one or more of the following areas: animal behav-
ior/behavioral ecology, endocrinology, chemical ecol-
ogy, evolutionary or eld biology, population dynam-
ics/genetics.
Experience working with wild animals and in a labo-
ratory is required
The applicant should work well independently and as
part of a team, and should be enthusiastic and highly
motivated.
Responsibilities:
Animal handling and administration of hormonal
preparations
Behavioral data collection on free-ranging meerkats,
using hand- held computers
Collection of biological material (blood, fecal, glandu-
lar) from animals
Oversight of eld assistants on all aspects of data col-
lection
Transportation or shipment of biological samples to
the US
Performance of various assays (e.g. RIA, EIA, GCMS,
LCMS, HPLC)
(Assistance in DNA extraction and various genetic
analyses, as necessary)
Data maintenance and analysis
Coordination with eld and laboratory managers
Assistance in the training and review of new personnel
or procedural developments
Performance of other related duties incidental to the
work described herein
Please email an application, consisting of a cover letter
summarizing your qualications and interests, curricu-
lum vitae, representative reprints or preprints, and the
names and contact information for two references, to
Christine Drea (cdrea@duke.edu). Evaluation of appli-
cants will begin immediately and will continue until the
position is lled.Duke University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action/ADA Employer.
Christine Drea <cdrea@duke.edu >
FloridaStateU EvolBiolBehavEcol
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER IN EVOLUTION-
ARY BIOLOGY AND BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY:
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Dr. Emily Mori-
arty Lemmon Department of Biological Science Florida
State University
Position Description: A postdoctoral position (up to
two years) is available in the laboratory of Dr. Emily
Moriarty Lemmon to collaborate on an NSF-funded
project to study the eect of community interactions
on evolution of male reproductive signals and female
preferences in chorus frogs (Pseudacris) and the genetic
consequences for speciation.
The postdoctoral scientist will lead a team of grad-
uate students and eld technicians to conduct eld-
work across the southeastern United States and per-
form behavioral experiments in a portable lab during
the spring eld seasons (approximately two months per
year). Outside of the eld season, the postdoctoral
scholar will analyze behavioral data, genotype samples,
and collect high-throughput sequencing data via an-
chored phylogenomics.
The postdoctoral researcher will have the opportu-
nity to gain training in high-throughput data collection
for phylogenomics and population genetics, analysis of
phylogenetic data, bioinformatics, and behavioral ecol-
ogy.
The ideal candidate will have eld experience with
frogs, experience conducting behavioral experiments,
training in molecular biology, and computational ex-
perience. However, applicants with some combination
of the above qualications will also be considered. The
start-date for this position will be Fall 2013 (exact date
exible), and salary will be competitive.
Interviews: Dr. Lemmon will be attending the Evo-
lution 2013 meetings June 21-26. Qualied applicants
should specify whether they will be available for an in-
terview during these meetings. Other applicants will
be contacted as needed.
Minimum Qualications: A Ph.D. in biology, molec-
ular biology, or a related eld with a focus on evolu-
tion Previous research experience and a strong publica-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
tion record Extensive eld experience, preferably with
amphibians Ability to communicate clearly, work e-
ciently and independently, interact collaboratively, and
lead a eld team Additional Preferred Qualications:
Molecular biology and genetics training (e.g., phylo-
genetics, population genetics, phylogeography) Com-
putational experience Experience in high-throughput
sequencing Experience conducting behavioral studies
Application Deadline: 15 July 2013 (or until lled).
Start date: Fall 2013 (exact date exible up to Decem-
ber).
To Apply: Application materials consisting of (1) a
CV, (2) a statement of research interests and expe-
rience including how previous experience relates to
the position description (2 page max), and (3) con-
tact information for three references must be sub-
mitted to chorusfrog@bio.fsu.edu. Review of ap-
plications will begin June 21, 2013 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. Informal inquiries
are welcome. General information about the lab
can be found at http://www.bio.fsu.edu/chorusfrog/-
index.html . About Florida State University: The
successful applicant will be aliated with the Depart-
ment of Biological Science (http://www.bio.fsu.edu/)
and will also interact with the Department of Scientic
Computing (http://www.sc.fsu.edu/), and the College
of Medicine (http://med.fsu.edu/). These groups col-
laborate extensively on evolutionary, behavioral, sta-
tistical, mathematical, genomic, and computational
projects. The postdoctoral researcher will join this
community of highly interactive research laboratories.
Florida State University is located in capital city Tal-
lahassee on the Florida Panhandle immediately adja-
cent to the Apalachicola National Forest, which is the
largest national forest in Florida (nearly 900 sq. mi.).
The forest borders the Apalachicola National Estuarine
Research Reserve, which is one of the most productive
estuarine systems in the Northern Hemisphere. The
Apalachicola River basin contains the highest herpeto-
faunal diversity in the U.S. and Canada.
The researcher chosen will become part of the inte-
grative laboratory groups of Emily Moriarty Lemmon
and Alan Lemmon at Florida State University. The
Lemmons collaborate extensively on projects involv-
ing collection of high-throughput phylogenomic data
and on the development of new approaches to anal-
ysis of these data. More information is available at
these websites: http://www.bio.fsu.edu/chorusfrog/-
index.html http://www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-moriarty-
lemmon.php http://www.evotutor.org/LemmonLab/
Emily Moriarty Lemmon, Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Science/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GeorgeWashingtonU
HumanEvolutionaryBiol
The George Washington University Department of An-
thropology announces a Research Associate position in
Human Evolutionary Biology. This is a one-year, full-
time position in the Center for the Advanced Study of
Hominid Paleobiology (CASHP) that may be extended
at the discretion of the department contingent on the
availability of funding. The successful candidate will
work closely with the Principle Investigator and will
contribute to a systematics-related research agenda in
the area of human evolutionary biology. The Research
Associate will also be expected to contribute to under-
graduate and/or graduate training in the conduct of
research. Applicants should include a cover letter with
a brief proposal describing the research they intend to
perform while funded by CASHP.
Salary is commensurate with experience. Preference
will be given to applicants who have demonstrated their
ability to conduct and publish their research, have re-
search experience in the area of human evolutionary
biology, and who have completed their PhD.
Full details of the position are at the George
Washington University Employment Portal: https://-
www.gwu.jobs/postings/15979. Please send all appli-
cant materials directly to Dr. Bernard Wood at bernar-
dawood@gmail.com, as well through the GWU Employ-
ment Portal. For more information, contact Charlotte
Krohn, chark629@gwu.edu, 202-994-0351. Find more
information about CASHP at cashp.gwu.edu.
Thanks so much,
Charlotte Krohn
\Krohn, Charlotte" <chark629@email.gwu.edu >66 EvolDir July 1, 2013
GhentU PhD Postdoc
GeneDuplications
The following positions are now open in the Van de
Peer Lab at VIB/Ghent University, Belgium (http:/-
/bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/), in relation to the ERC
Advanced Grant Double-Up, on the importance of gene
and genome duplications for natural and articial or-
ganism populations.
2 PhD positions 1 Postdoc position
The long-term establishment of ancient organisms that
have undergone whole genome duplications has been ex-
ceedingly rare. On the other hand, tens of thousands of
now-living species, both plants and animals, are poly-
ploid, and contain multiple copies of their genome. The
apparent paucity of ancient genome duplications and
the existence of many species that are currently poly-
ploid provide an interesting and fascinating enigma. A
question that remains to be answered is whether these
older genome duplications have survived by coincidence
or whether they could survive only because they did
occur, or were selected for, at very specic times, for
instance during major ecological upheavals and periods
of extinction. We hope to address these questions at
dierent levels through 1) the analysis of whole plant
genome sequence data and 2) the in silico modeling
and evolution of articial gene regulatory networks to
mimic the genomic consequences of genome doubling
and how this may aect network structure, redundancy,
rewiring, and dosage balance. Furthermore, we aim
at using simulated robotic models running on articial
gene regulatory networks in complex and challenging
environments to evaluate how both natural and arti-
cial organism populations can potentially benet from
gene and genome duplications for adaptation, survival,
and evolution in general.
DOUBLE-UP is a truly interdisciplinary proposal that
will open up new horizons and perspectives for dier-
ent elds of research, from bioinformatics and systems
biology over comparative and evolutionary biology, to
network modeling and evolutionary robotics.
We are looking for 2 highly motivated PhD students
and 1 highly motivated Postdoc to help us achieve
these ambitious goals. A strong (bio)informatics back-
ground, good programming skills, and previous mod-
eling/simulation experience are all required. A back-ground in evolutionary biology and population biology
is strongly preferred. Some interest in evolutionary
robotics and articial life is an advantage. Applicants
should be procient in English, both speaking and writ-
ing. The positions are available starting October 1st,
2013, with funding secured for at least four years.
Contact Yves Van de Peer at
yves.vandepeer@psb.ugent.be for more informa-
tion and/or to apply. To apply, please send a detailed
CV and motivation letter before August 15th. {
Check out http://www.plantgenomeevolution.com/
Yves Van de Peer, PhD.
Professor in Bioinformatics and Genome Biology Group
Leader Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, VIB De-
partment of Plant Systems Biology Ghent University
Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Ghent Belgium
Phone: +32 (0)9 331 3807 Cell Phone: +32
(0)476 560 091 Fax: +32 (0)9 331 3809 email:
yves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.be
http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/ Yves Van de Peer
<yves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.be >
HarvardU Bioinformatics Comput
Biol
Postdoctoral Position in Bioinformatics and Computa-
tional Biology
The Lemos laboratory at Harvard University is search-
ing for a postdoctoral fellow in bioinformatics / compu-
tational biology interested in pursuing research in epige-
nomics, population genomics, genotype-environment
interaction, and the architecture of complex diseases.
The fellow should be interested in working with com-
putational data analysis, and be motivated by research
that combines careful genetics and extensive compu-
tational and statistical analyses of genome-wide data
from a variety of experimental sources.
The laboratory is housed at the Harvard School of Pub-
lic Health located within a vibrant research community
that includes the Harvard Medical School, and several
aliated hospitals. The school has signicant strengths
in computational biology, biostatistics, genomics, and
engineering that will be all within close reach of the
fellow. Applicants must be extremely curious and mo-
tivated by science, be genuinely enthusiastic, and have
the ability to work independently within a collegial andJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
collaborative team. Applicants should expect a fun and
creative research environment in which I can provide
plenty of individual mentoring and support to develop
your own interests and ideas.
Applicants must have a PhD at the time of the appoint-
ment and have a strong analytical background with pro-
ciency in one or more programming languages.
Applications should be sent to ble-
mos@hsph.harvard.edu. Please send a cover letter
(max 2 pages) describing your research interests and
experience, a C.V. and contact information for three
references. Review of applications will start on July
15th, and will continue until the position is lled.
Informal enquires of interested candidates with other
backgrounds are also welcome.
Bernardo Lemos Assistant Professor Harvard School of
Public Health http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/faculty/-
bernardo-lemos/ blemos@hsph.harvard.edu
INRA Sophia DNABarcoding
Post-Doctoral Position in DNA Barcoding, Taxonomy
and Phylogenetics of biological control agents and their
target crop pests.
INRA Sophia Antipolis (France) is searching for a post-
doctoral fellow to lead research and training activities
in DNA-barcoding, taxonomy and phylogenetics on sev-
eral groups of arthropods of agronomic interest.
The successful candidate will work within the consor-
tium involved in the European Commission project
FP7-IAPP Colbics (industry/academia collaboration
on biological control using macro-organisms): Insti-
tut National de la Recherche Agronomique (France),
Universidad Politcnica de Valencia (Spain), Universi-
dad Catolica de Chile (Chile), Biobest (Belgium), In-
Vivo Agrosolution (France), ANASAC (Chile). The
fellow will: - Coordinate of the DNA-Barcoding activ-
ities to be performed at INRA Sophia Antipolis with
other Colbicsparticipants. - Train students and re-
searchers to the basic methods of phylogeny reconstruc-
tion and associated DNA sequence analysis techniques.
- Investigate the phylogenetic relationships within com-
plexes of cryptic taxa of agronomic relevance. This
activity will benet from abundant DNA multi-locus
data produced for 4 years by the teams (e.g. on
Hemiptera:Pseudococcidae, Hymenoptera:Eupelmidae,
and Hymenoptera:Trichogrammatidae).Main scientic contacts: Thibaut Malausa
(tmalausa@sophia.inra.fr), Nicolas Ris
(ris@sophia.inra.fr).
The ideal candidate will have: - Experience of large
DNA dataset handling and analysis - Excellent under-
standing of phylogeny reconstruction methods. - Ex-
perience of phylogenetic studies based on multilocus
data. - Basics in the taxonomy of insects, especially
Hymenoptera. - Published works (in peer-reviewed in-
ternational journals) including comprehensive phyloge-
netic analyses; - Skills in bioinformatics - Basic knowl-
edge of Next-Generation DNA sequencing techniques
and data.
Candidate Eligibility Criteria (EU FP7-IAPP rules):
(1) PhD Degree. (2) Full-Time Research experience
between 4 and 10 years since the Master Degree (or
equivalent degree that enables to embark a PhD). (3)
Less than 12 months spent in France since July 2010.
Contractual conditions: - Full-time contract. - Em-
ployer: Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique.
- Duration: 24 months. - Contract starting date: From
August 2013. - Gross salary: 4,500 EUR (net salary
around 3,600 EUR). - Work place: INRA Sophia An-
tipolis, 400 route des Chappes. BP 167. 06903 Sophia
Antipolis, France (near Antibes and Nice, Southern
France).
Instructions to applicants: (1) Eligibility Check (dead-
line 30th of June): Applicants are asked to ll the on-
line form at https://enquetes.inra.fr/index.php?sid=-
73914&lang=en; (2) Preliminary Selection: Eligible
candidates will be asked to provide recommendation
letters, a detailed C.V. and a cover letter; (3) Final
selection: up to 4 candidates will be interviewed.
{ Thibaut Malausa Charg de Recherches INRA
UMR 1355 ISA 400 route des Chappes. BP 167
06903 Sophia Antipolis cedex. FRANCE Tel:
+33 (0)4 92 38 65 06 Tel: +33 (0)9 77 21 71 66
E-mail : tmalausa@sophia.inra.fr Web : http:/-
/www.paca.inra.fr/institut-sophia-agrobiotech/-
Equipes-de-recherche/BPI Thibaut Malausa
<tmalausa@sophia.inra.fr >
KielU MicrobialGenomeEvolution
A post-doctoral position is currently available for three
years with Tal Dagan at the Institute of Microbiology,
Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Germany (http:/-68 EvolDir July 1, 2013
/www.mikrobio.uni-kiel.de/de/ag-dagan). The posi-
tion is within the framework of the Future Ocean Clus-
ter (www.futureocean.org) that includes scientists from
Kiel University and GeoMar. For candidates in pursuit
of a habilitation thesis, the term of the position may be
extended to ve years. The successful applicant will be
expected to participate in teaching of molecular evolu-
tion, genomics, or biostatistics.
The Dagan group research interests are focused on
microbial genome evolution. Our current research
projects include the study of DNA acquisition dynam-
ics in natural environments, the evolution of protein
interaction with molecular chaperones and the evolu-
tion of phenotypic diversity in cyanobacteria. In our
research we use both computational and experimental
approaches.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, Molecular Biology, Microbiology or related elds.
Proved expertise in molecular evolution or bioinformat-
ics are required. To apply, please submit applications
by e-mail to Tal Dagan (tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de), as a
single PDF including (1) a CV, (2) a brief statement
of past accomplishments and PDFs of most relevant
publications, (3) research interests and (4) names and
contact information of three referees. Interested appli-
cants attending the SMBE 2013 conference in Chicago
are invited to approach Tal Dagan for an informal chat.
tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
Bioinformatics
Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Bioinformatics and Genome Analysis
Post-doctoral positions are available in the Bioinfor-
matics and Genome Analysis groups at the Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig,
Germany.
The goal of the research groups is to develop and ap-
ply computational methods for the analysis of genome
and transcriptome sequence data from primates, ar-
chaic humans and model organisms. A major focus is
understanding the evolution of modern humans through
the comparison of human genomes with the genomes of
other primates and archaic humans.
The candidates will work on the analysis of next gen-
eration sequence data of archaic and modern humangenomes. S/he will have the opportunity to interact
with colleagues in population genetics and statistics
and will collaborate closely with experimental groups
generating genome sequence and expression data.
The successful applicants will hold a doctoral degree in
computer sciences, statistics, or biological sciences with
demonstrated experience in computational and statisti-
cal approaches and a solid publication record. Previous
experience in the analysis and integration of data, par-
ticularly next generation sequence data, as well as the
statistical interpretation of datasets is required. The
applicant should have demonstrated experience in the
implementation of scientic algorithms in software.
Prociency with at least one high level programming
language (eg: C++) and appropriate scripting lan-
guages and statistical data analysis tools (Python/Perl,
R/MATLAB) is expected. The applicant should have
a demonstrated ability to work independently, and to
devise and implement his/her own ideas and bring
projects to publication. S/he should have excellent
written and spoken communication skills. The ability
to work in an inter-disciplinary setting and to commu-
nicate with both computational and wet-lab colleagues
is essential.
WHERE Max-Planck Institute for Evolution-
ary Anthropology. Leipzig, Germany http://-
www.eva.mpg.de/ HOW TO APPLY: Interested
applicants should send a cover letter and CV including
at least 2 references by email to: kelso@eva.mpg.de or
pruefer@eva.mpg.de
Kay Pruefer <pruefer@eva.mpg.de >
NewYorkU
EvolutionarySystemsBiology
Postdoctoral Researcher, Siegal Lab, New York Univer-
sity
A postdoc position is available in Mark Siegal's lab at
NYU's Center for Genomics and Systems Biology. The
Siegal lab uses a variety of experimental and compu-
tational approaches to understand phenotypic robust-
ness and variability. The successful candidate will work
on an NIH-funded project to understand the eects of
mutations on variation in yeast-cell growth, using high-
throughput microscopy and automated image analysis.
The postdoc will also have the opportunity to pursue
independent research related to this work.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
The Center for Genomics and Systems Biology is a
dynamic and interactive research environment, with a
unique concentration of labs investigating questions at
the intersection of systems biology and evolution. NYU
is located in the wonderful Greenwich Village neighbor-
hood of New York City.
Applicants should be motivated, creative and col-
legial. Prior experience with relevant experimental
methods (yeast molecular genetics, microscopy, im-
age analysis) is advantageous. Review of applica-
tions will begin immediately and continue until the
position is lled. To apply please email Mark Siegal
<mark.siegal@nyu.edu >with CV, a list of references
and a brief statement of research experience and in-
terests. New York University is an equal opportunity
employer.
Mark L. Siegal Associate Professor and Director of Un-
dergraduate Studies Center for Genomics and Systems
Biology Department of Biology New York University 12
Waverly Place, 8th Floor New York, NY 10003
mark.siegal@nyu.edu http://www.nyu.edu/projects/-
siegal mark.siegal@nyu.edu
NorthCarolina BehavioralEvolution
*POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE*
*COCKROACH BEHAVIORAL AND NUTRI-
TIONAL ECOLOGY*
*North Carolina State University*
*A postdoctoral research* position is available in the
lab of Jules Silverman to study cockroach behavioral
and nutritional ecology. This is a collaborative project
with Coby Schal with the specic aim to understand
how glucose-averse *Blattella germanica* compete with
non-averse conspecics in nutrient constrained environ-
ments. The project could involve a mix of experimen-
tal, observational, nutritional geometry, genetic, bio-
chemical and other tools, depending on the interests of
the successful applicant. The successful candidate will
have the opportunity to interact with a broad group of
students, postdocs and faculty in the departments of
Entomology and Biology at North Carolina State Uni-
versity working on insect-host plant interactions, be-
havior, physiology, genetics and chemical ecology. This
is a two-year appointment with a possible one-year ex-
tension, depending on the availability of funds.*Project Background:* In response to strong selection
with toxic baits, populations of the German cockroach
*Blattella germanica* have developed behavioral deter-
rence to d-glucose, a universal phagostimulant. This
trait is heritable, the behavior is elicited by glucose
alone, glucose-containing disaccharides remain palat-
able, and the trait confers great tness advantage under
selection pressure of glucose-containing baits (Silver-
man and Bieman 1993, *J. Insect Physiol.* 39:925-933).
Recently, we determined that this behavior is mediated
by a gain of function chemosensory mutation whereby
glucose elicits strong responses from both sugar and
bitter gustatory receptor neurons (Wada-Katsumata et
al. 2013, *Science* 340: 972-975). Since glucose is
ubiquitous within the natural environment of the Ger-
man cockroach we are particularly interested in uncov-
ering behavioral and physiological adaptations linked
to glucose-aversion, which allow this trait to persist in
the absence of selection with glucose-containing baits.
*Qualications:* Ph.D. in a biological science, e.g. En-
tomology, Zoology, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
Behavioral Biology. Research experience with insect
foraging behavior and nutrient regulation preferred.
To apply, send curriculum vitae, statement of interest
and qualications, names and contact info for three ref-
erences, and up to three relevant publications to:
Dr. Jules Silverman
jules silverman@ncsu.edu.
Department of Entomology North Carolina State Uni-
versity Raleigh, NC, USA 27695
Application review will start June 24, 2013 and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Salary (plus bene-
ts) will be commensurate with experience and quali-
cations. See http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/entomology/-
silverman and http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/entomology/-
schal for information about our labs.
jsilver@ncsu.edu
Omaha MadagascarBiodiversity
Postdoctoral^ a cFellow - Madagascar Biodiversity^ a c
Genomics
Job Description: Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo
and Aquarium Conservation Genetics Department
(OHDZA-CG) based in Omaha, Nebraska is seeking a
post-doctoral researcher with interest/expertise in the70 EvolDir July 1, 2013
generation and analysis of next-generation sequencing
data of lemurs, tortoises, and other taxa from Mada-
gascar.
Duties: The successful applicant will construct ge-
nomic library for high throughput sequencing as well
as assemble and analyze sequence data and manage
next^ ageneration sequence workows. This individual
will be responsible for development, implementation,
and support of software applications related to vari-
ant detection and interpretation from high-throughput
experiments involving multiple species of lemurs, tor-
toises, and taxa from Madagascar. Interested candi-
dates should be highly motivated, organized, indepen-
dent, and have extensive experience with molecular ge-
nomics and bioinformatics. Travel to Madagascar to
support the eld programs of OHDZA-CG is required
for a minimum of ve week intervals twice a year.
Basic Qualications: Applicants should hold a PhD in
bioinformatics, computer science, molecular genomics
or related eld and have more than one year of expe-
rience in high^ athroughput genome sequence analysis.
Applicants should be experienced at software related
to next generation sequencing data and be able to ma-
nipulate genomic data for phylogenetics and phylogeog-
raphy. Our group's focus is large-scale sequencing for
phylogenetics, phylogeography and evolutionary stud-
ies of lemurs, tortoises and other taxa from Madagas-
car. Thus, previous experience in genome assemblies,
annotation and analysis of next generation sequencing
(NGS) are preferable. The ideal candidate will be in-
dependent, highly motivated, productive, and able to
work eectively in a team with members from a variety
of diverse backgrounds with outstanding written and
verbal communication skills. The successful applicant
must be interested in interdisciplinary science and eld
research and have a solid publication record that illus-
trates ability to conduct novel, independent research.
Must be legally entitled to work in the USA. Visa spon-
sorship is not available at present.
Preferred Qualications: Candidates should have 3+
years of experience in molecular biology, genetics, or
bioinformatics. The position requires prociency in
programming (Perl, C++) and Linus operating sys-
tems. Applicants are also expected to be familiar with
bioinformatics tools and genomics databases and have
extensive and creditable laboratory experience with
constructing genomic libraries.
Appointment: The selected candidate will be
based primarily at OHDZA-CG, but the individ-
ual will be required to travel and conduct eld
work with the projects under the management
of the Madagascar Biodiversity Partnership, ONG(www.madagascarpartnership.org). Salary/benets are
based on OHDZA-CG's salary/benets structure, and
are commensurate with experience. The initial appoint-
ment is for duration of two^ ayears, but is renewable for
an additional two years based on performance.
Application: Applicants should send curriculum vitae,
a statement of research interests and career goals, and
the names and addresses of three academic references
to:
Dr. Edward E. Louis, Director of Genetics department,
Center for Conservation and Research, Omaha's Henry
Doorly Zoo and Aquarium, 3701 South 10th Street,
Omaha, NE 68107; Email: edlo@omahazoo.com; ge-
netics@omahazoo.com
Review of applications will begin on July 15, 2013 and
the position selected by August 1, 2013. The position
will begin on September 1, 2013.
Contact Information: Dr. Edward E. Louis Director of
Conservation Genetics Department Center for Conser-
vation and Research Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo and
Aquarium 3701 South 10th Street, Omaha, NE 68107
Email: edlo@omahazoo.com; genetics@omahazoo.com
genetics@omahazoo.com
PennStateU Paleontology
Postdoctoral position in paleontology, Penn State Uni-
versity
We invite applications for a postdoctoral researcher to
participate in a collaborative research project (A. Krug
and M. Patzkowsky) investigating the Late Ordovician
mass extinction and recovery using phylogenetic meth-
ods that quantify evolutionary history. The NASA
funded research involves the development of brachio-
pod phylogenies for use in analyzing changes in evo-
lutionary patterns, uctuations in phylogenetic diver-
sity, and changes in community composition across the
Ordovician-Silurian boundary. Experience with quan-
titative methods in paleobiology is required. Knowl-
edge of phylogenetic methods and analyses is prefer-
able. The position is located within the Department
of Geosciences at Penn State University. Starting date
negotiable but prefer September 2013, potentially ex-
tending for 3 years. Requires either PhD in hand or
dissertation submitted and approved for degree. Please
send an application letter, CV, and email addresses
of two references via email to Dr. Andrew Z. KrugJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
<azk102@psu.edu <akrug@psu.edu >> at Penn State
University.
Dr. Andrew Z. Krug Research Associate Department
of Geosciences The Pennsylvania State University
Andrew Krug <azk102@psu.edu >
Perth Australia AdaptiveGenomics
Perth Australia: Adaptive genomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Depart-
ment of Environment and Agriculture, Curtin Univer-
sity (Perth, Western Australia) to participate in an
Australian Research Council Discovery Project. The
joint project, with investigators from Curin Univer-
sity (Tianhua He), Murdoch University (Prof Neal En-
right) and University of Oklahoma (Prof Yiqi Luo),
integrates eld/glasshouse experiments with genomic
analysis to investigate whether the adaptation ande-
volution of plants is rapid enough to keep pace with
climate change. The postdoc will be expected to
lead population genomics analyses, and participate in
eld/glasshouse work with technical assistance. The
ideal candidate will have: 1. experience in next gen-
eration sequencing technologies, particularly transcrip-
tome sequencing and analysis, EST-SSR screening and
genotyping - essential; 2. written and published articles
in scientic journalsV essential; 3. good knowledge in
plant ecology and/or evolution, and/or phylogeneticsV
highly desirable; 4. skills in bioinformatics V highly de-
sirable; 5. knowledge of Australias plant families such
as the Proteaceae and Myrtaceae V desirable.
The appointment will be made for one and half years
commencing from late 2013 (overseas applicants note
that the process of getting a working visa in Australia
could take 4-5 months), with the possibility of renewal
for a second year. Commencing salary (before tax) will
be in accordance with qualications and experience and
within the range AU$58091- $78831 per annum (Aca-
demic Level A, minimum salary for a PhD degree holder
is AU$73439). Other benets include 9% employer su-
perannuation contribution, and 4 weeks annual leave
with pay. Successful candidate is expected and will be
assisted to develop new projects and secure funding as
independent investigator.
To apply for the position, go to http://-
futuresta.curtin.edu.au/job-vacancies/. Tianhua
He is available for enquiries.please send a CV and a cover letter describing your
background andresearch interests, and name and con-
tact information of three referees to Tianhua He (also
available for enquiries).
The research in our group utilizes population genet-
ics/genomics, phylogenetic analysis, reconstruction of
ancient ecological and functional traits, and eld exper-
iments on nature populations/species to address ques-
tions related to adaptation and diversication in south-
west Australias biodiversity hotspot.
Tianhua He Depart. Environ. & Agric., Curtin Uni-
versity; PO Box U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia E:
Tianhua.He@curtin.edu.au T: +61 8 9266 7964; +61
437 788 235
Tianhua He <Tianhua.He@curtin.edu.au >
RutgersU PopulationGenomics
Postdoc -Population Genomics
Postdoctoral positions in Population Genomics at Rut-
gers University
Seeking qualied applicants for a post-doctoral position
with Andrew Kern in the Department of Genetics and
the Human Genetics Institute of New Jersey at Rut-
gers University. One postdoc position in unassociated
with a particular project, however recent work in the
lab spans the intersection of machine learning, popula-
tion genetics, comparative genomics, and evolutionary
biology. The other postdoc position is NIH funded to
work on methods development for parameter inference
in Isolation with Migration (IM) models. This work
will be done in collaboration with the lab of Jody Hey.
More information about the Kern lab can be found
here: http://kernlab.rutgers.edu . Information about
our collaborator Jody Hey can be found here:
http://genfaculty.rutgers.edu/hey . More information
about the department can be found here: http://-
genetics.rutgers.edu/. The Kern lab is located on the
Busch campus of Rutgers University, in central New
Jersey, and is in easy commuting range to New York
City.
The ideal candidate would hold a Ph.D. and have a
record of research achievement in population genet-
ics, computational biology, computer science, statis-
tics, or a related eld. A background in compar-
ative/population/evolutionary genomics is of course72 EvolDir July 1, 2013
highly desirable. In addition the candidate should
have experience programming in C, a scripting language
(Ruby, Python, or Perl is ne), and would ideally be
comfortable with cluster computing environments.
Review of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the positions are lled. The position
could begin as early as August, 2013. Interested can-
didates should submit an electronic version of their
CV along with a cover letter describing their qual-
ications and relevant experience to Andrew Kern
(kern@biology.rutgers.edu)
Andrew Kern Assistant Professor of Genetics Rutgers
University kern@biology.rutgers.edu
Kern@dls.rutgers.edu
StanfordU PopGenetics
Postdoc in population genetics, Stanford University
Postdoctoral positions are available in Jonathan
Pritchard's lab, which will be moving to Stanford Uni-
versity in August 2013.
Current work in the group uses computational and sta-
tistical methods to study a variety of problems in pop-
ulation genetics and molecular evolution. One focus
is on the evolution of gene regulation, in collaboration
with Yoav Gilad's lab. We are also interested in a vari-
ety of other problems including the genetics of complex
traits; models of genetic architecture and genetic load;
natural selection; and methods for studying population
structure and demographic history. At Stanford we will
be joining an outstanding community in population ge-
netics, evolutionary biology and genomics. Much of
our current work is in humans, but we are potentially
interested in a broad range of organisms. Successful ap-
plicants will have considerable latitude and resources to
design their own projects.
Applicants for the position must have a background in
population genetics or come from a quantitative eld
(such as statistics or computer science) and have a
demonstrated interest in genetics and evolution. Strong
programming and bioinformatics skills are essential.
Applicants must be highly motivated and able to work
independently when needed.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV and description of research interests) should be
emailed to Jonathan Pritchard (pritch@uchicago.edu).Applications will be considered as they are received;
positions will be available any time starting in August.
Jonathan Pritchard Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Departments of Genetics and Biology Stanford Univer-
sity
pritch@uchicago.edu
Switzerland Evolutionarydynamics
A collaborative research team led by Blake Matthews,
Ole Seehausen, and Bernhard Wehrli are seeking a
postdoctoral researcher with a background and inter-
est in evolutionary biology, community ecology, and/or
ecosystem science.
The aim of the project is to understand the interaction
between eco-evolutionary dynamics and the functioning
of aquatic ecosystems. Specically, we are interested in
how organism-mediated changes to the temporal and
spatial heterogeneity of ecosystems can alter environ-
mental sources of selection, so as to either promote
or constrain further adaptive evolution. The project
involves large-scale eco-evolutionary experiments that
address fundamental links between the ecology and evo-
lution of food webs and the physical environment and
biogeochemistry of aquatic ecosystems. An ideal candi-
date would have some experience with next generation
sequencing methodologies and strong analytical abili-
ties for the analysis of ecological communities.
Eawag's Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeo-
chemistry (CEEB) is located on the shore of Lake
Lucerne in Switzerland, and is a strong nucleus of
Eawag research groups aimed at integrating evo-
lutionary biology, community ecology, and ecosys-
tem science http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/-
index EN. The postdoc will interact with a diverse
range of researchers studying community ecology, evo-
lutionary biology, ecological genetics, ecosystem sci-
ence, and applied environmental science.
The starting date for the postdoc is exible, but a start-
ing date in 2013 is preferred. Applications should in-
clude a cover letter, a curriculum vita, and the names
of three references. Copies of 3-5 prior publications will
also be considered if made available via PDF.
Please submit your application by 1 July 2013. Appli-
cations must be submitted online via this link: http://-
internet1.reine.ch/673277/0201/++publications++/-
1/index.html For further information: please contactJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
Blake Matthews by email (blake.matthews@eawag.ch),
or visit our webpages below.
Blake Matthews: http://homepages.eawag.ch/-
~ matthebl/Welcome.html Ole Seehausen: http:/-
/www.eawag.ch/about/personen/homepages/-
seehauso/index EN Bernhard Wehrli: http://-
www.eawag.ch/about/personen/homepages/wehrli/-
index Blake.Matthews@eawag.ch
TexasTechU EvlutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Bioinformatics and Genome
Analysis
The laboratory of David Ray
(www.crocoduck.bch.msstate.edu) is seeking a post-
doctoral associate in the areas of genome analysis and
bioinformatics.
The successful candidate will perform a variety of rou-
tine and specialized duties in the laboratory. Duties
will require knowledge of the principles of bioinformat-
ics and genome analysis including the generation and
analysis of next generation sequence data (454 and Il-
lumina). Current projects focus on transposable ele-
ments, small RNAs, and whole genome comparisons.
Applicants must exhibit curiosity and an interest in ba-
sic evolutionary questions. They should also be enthu-
siastic and have the able to work independently within
a dynamic an collaborative working environment.
Training will be provided but preference will be given to
those with experience working with next-generation se-
quence data, whole genome analyses, and/or transpos-
able element sequences. Duties will include the creation
of custom scripts to analyze large sequence databases
from a variety of taxa including reptiles, mammals, and
insects. He/She will also interact with undergraduate
and graduate students. The successful candidate will
be expected to produce rst-authored papers as well
as collaborate on others. Note that this position is for
three years but renewal each year is contingent on per-
formance.
Position Location: Department of Biological Sciences,
Texas Tech University, Lubbock TX.
Department Prole The Department of Biological Sci-
ences is a comprehensive department with an academic,
research and service mission. The Department oers
B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from within the Col-
lege of Arts and Sciences, and currently advises 880undergraduate, 120 graduate students and 10 postdoc-
toral associates, many of whom are involved in evolu-
tion and/or genomics.
Minimum Qualications: Ph.D. degree with major
course work in curriculum appropriate for the eld of
assignment bioinformatics, molecular biology, etc.
Preferred Qualications: Experience with genome an-
notation techniques, custom scripting, and interge-
nomic analysis.
Instructions for Applying: Screening will begin June 15,
2013 and will continue until the position is lled. Please
submit a letter of application indicating experience and
research interests, curriculum vitae, and contact infor-
mation for three references to:
Dr. David A. Ray david.4.ray@gmail.com 662-325-7740
Texas Tech University is an armative action/equal
opportunity employer.
{ David A. Ray Associate Professor Department of
Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Entomology and
Plant Pathology Mississippi State University Missis-
sippi State, MS 39762
Websites: http://www.crocoduck.bch.msstate.edu
http://www.crocgenomes.org/ E-mail:
dray@bch.msstate.edu Oce: 662-325-7740 Lab
phone: 662-325-7746 Fax: 662-325-8955
Even the best of us have bad days. \I am very poorly
today and very stupid and hate everyone and every-
thing." - Charles Darwin - Oct. 1, 1861
dray@bch.msstate.edu
UBourgogne Fragmentation
LandscapeGenetics
A postdoctoral research assistant is required for a
project entitled *'Consequences of forest fragmentation
on population biology of tropical birds*'. The post is
available for 1 year (with possible renewal for 1 year
depending on funding) and will be based in the Lab-
oratory BioG eoSciences (CNRS & Universit e de Bour-
gogne, Dijon, France).
*Project summary*
This project aims to assess eects of fragmentation on
several attributes of individuals/populations in a set of
bird species with contrasted levels of forest specializa-74 EvolDir July 1, 2013
tion: (i) genetic diversity, due to demographic changes
(smaller and more isolated populations), (ii) phenotypic
(morphological, ornamental, immunological) quality of
individuals, and (iii) host-parasite interactions. This
project will be conducted on four territories: French
Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Montserrat. If
these territories host a high endemic biodiversity, they
are faced with real problems of forest loss and fragmen-
tation mainly due to human activities and demographic
growth. In addition to contribute to a better knowledge
of ecological and evolutionary consequences of habitat
fragmentation, the integrated approach of this project
will produce valuable results for decision rules in na-
ture and wildlife management frameworks. The collab-
oration of scientic partners and partners concretely
involved in local conservation plans ensures the inte-
gration of research and management.
*Postdoc tasks*
The main research aim for the grant is to determine how
the landscape structure inuences genetic diversity in
several bird species. However, we also expect the post-
doc to contribute to the study of phenotypic variation
and host-parasite interactions in the context of habitat
fragmentation. Original intellectual contributions will
of course be welcome too.
Part of samples is already available, but there will be
opportunities to contribute to eldwork (if desired).
The postdoc will mainly contribute to and co-supervise
production and analyses of genotypic data, as well as
manuscript writing.
*Qualications of the most competitive candidate*
-Strong background in evolutionary biology, ecology,
and conservation
-Strong experience with lab work in molecular biol-
ogy, especially microsatellite genotyping (and possibly
AFLP) and DNA sequencing
-Good experience with relevant analytical methods in
population genetics and landscape genetics (and sec-
ondary in phylogeography)
-Good skills in general statistics (experience with GIS
data analyses or meta-analyses would be a plus)
Further information can be asked to:
St ephane Garnier (stephane.garnier@u-bourgogne.fr)
Bruno Faivre (bruno.faivre@u-bourgogne.fr)
Applications (including a cover letter, a CV, and con-
tact information for two academic referees) should be
sent to:
St ephane Garnier (stephane.garnier@u-bourgogne.fr)Review of applications will begin at the end of July and
continue until lled)
Start dates for the position will be from 1st of October
2013 to *1 ^st of December 2013*
{ Clughdf
St ephane Garnier
UMR CNRS 6282 Biog eosciences Universit e de Bour-
gogne 6 Bd Gabriel 21000 Dijon - France
stephane.garnier@u-bourgogne.fr Tel: +33 (0) 3 80 39
90 58 Fax: +33 (0) 3 80 39 62 31
stephane.garnier@u-bourgogne.fr
UCalifornia Berkeley
NeanderthalGenomics
Postdoctoral position in Neanderthal genomics
We are searching for someone to ll a postdoctoral posi-
tion jointly sponsored by the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, and
the Department of Integrative Biology at the Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley, USA. The successful can-
didate will be based in Montgomery Slatkins lab in
Berkeley but will make regular trips to Leipzig. We are
looking for someone with training in statistics, popula-
tion genetics and genomics who is interested in helping
with the analysis of genomic data from archaic homin-
ims, including early modern humans, Neanderthals and
Denisovans. The duties include helping develop new
methods of data analysis for the purpose of character-
izing past relationships among populations and detect-
ing evidence of natural selection and inbreeding. The
initial appointment will be for two years with the pos-
sibility of renewal for up to two more years. The po-
sition is restricted to people who received a Ph. D. or
equivalent no more than three years ago. The planned
starting date is September 1, 2013 but that date can
be adjusted if necessary. The initial salary will be US
$42,000 per year with health insurance. The University
of California is an equal opportunity employer. Appli-
cations from underrepresented minority groups are es-
pecially encouraged. To apply, please send a curriculum
vitae. a list of publications and the names and email
addresses of three references to Montgomery Slatkin,
slatkin@berkeley.edu. Review of applications will be-
gin July 1, 2013. The search will continue until the
position is lled.July 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
Montgomery SLATKIN <slatkin@berkeley.edu >
UCollege London Bioinformatics
Dear all,
UCL's Research Department of Genetics, Evolution
and Environment invites expressions of interest from
potential applicants to NERC's Independent Research
Fellowships in Bioinformatics.
NERC has recently launched a research programme
in \Mathematics and Informatics for Environ-
mental 'Omic Data Synthesis" and funds 5-year
fellowships for early-career scientists wishing to
establish independent research groups. More infor-
mation on the scheme and the background of the
programme can be found on the NERC website
(http://www.nerc.ac.uk/research/programmes/-
omics/events/ao-bioinformaticsfellowships.asp).
If you have the appropriate expertise and would like to
apply for a fellowship hosted in our department, please
get in touch with Max Reuter (m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk).
We will support selected candidates through all stages
of their application.
Our department fosters young talent and provides a
stimulating and multi-discilinary research environment.
It has strengths in evolutionary and statistical genet-
ics, genomics, evo-devo and environmental and biodi-
versity research. For more information about our re-
search, please visit the department's website (http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/) as well as those of departmental
sub-nuits including the UCL Genetics Institute (http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/ugi/) and the Centre for Biodiversity
and Environment Research (http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
cber/).
Best regards, Max
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London Darwin Building Gower Street London WC1E
6BT, UK
Phone: +44-20-76792201 (internal 32201)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ~ ucbtmre/-
Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
gee Centre for Ecology and Evolution: http://-
www.ceevol.org.uk m.reuter@ucl.ac.ukUCollege London EvoDevo
UCL Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment
Research Associate: Comparative morphology and de-
velopmental biology
The appointment will be full time on UCL Grade 7.
The salary range will be $32,375 - $34,165 per annum,
inclusive of London Allowance.
The Telford Lab in the Research Department of Genet-
ics, Evolution and Environment is seeking to appoint a
postdoctoral Research Associate to join a team funded
by an ERC advanced grant. The project aims to study
the morphology, embryology and genetics of the Xena-
coelomorpha (Xenoturbellida and Acoelomorpha) - a
newly identied phylum of worms that have been linked
to the deuterostomes.
The Research Associate will contribute to a study of the
morphology, ultrastructure and developmental biology
of several species of Xenacoelomorpha.
The post is available immediately and is funded until
31st May 2018 in the rst instance.
The successful applicant will have a PhD (awarded or
about to be awarded) in a relevant area. The ideal
candidate will have a knowledge of standard molecular
biological techniques with a special focus on compar-
ative developmental biology and a strong interest in
animal evolution. They will have a proven track record
of high quality research in molecular biology/ devel-
opmental biology/ evolutionary biology. Experience in
in situ hybridisation, antibody staining, sectioning and
microscopy will be desirable.
For further details about the vacancy and how to apply
online please go to http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ and
search on Reference Number 1339496.
Please attach a CV and a brief personal statement, ex-
plaining how your qualications and experience make
you a suitable candidate for the post.
For informal queries about the posts, please con-
tact Professor Max Telford, email: m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
. If you have any queries regarding the applica-
tion process, please contact Jeremy Guyer, email:
jeremy.guyer@ucl.ac.uk .
Closing Date: 10th July 2013.76 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Latest time for the submission of applications: 5 pm.
UCL Taking Action for Equality
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department of
Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University
College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street,
London WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679
2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096
https://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/gee-sta/academic-sta/-
index/max-telford a new open access journal
EvoDevo: http://www.evodevojournal.com/ Telford
& Littlewood: Animal Evolution. OUP <http:/-
/ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/9780199570300.do
>
Software to align Nucleotide sequence according
to Amino Acid translation TranslatorX <http://-
www.translatorx.co.uk >
Files and software for downloading: <
http://web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-
Downloads.html >
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis. Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y
structure data in rRNA phylogenetic analyses. MtZoa
and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution matrices
Hacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
Xenoturbella You Tube video < http://-
uk.youtube.com/watch?v=3DyJXNcoxL2Xs >
The Linnean Society of London <http://-
www.linnean.org/ >
m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
UCollege London
GenomicsOfXenoturbella
http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/jobs/-
328474-Research-Associate-Comparative-genomics
UCL Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment
Research Associate: Comparative genomics
The appointment will be full time on UCL Grade 7.
The salary range will be $32,375 - $34,165 per annum,
inclusive of London Allowance.
The Telford Lab in the Research Department of Genet-
ics, Evolution and Environment is seeking to appoint a
postdoctoral Research Associate to join a team funded
by an ERC advanced grant. The project aims to studythe morphology, embryology and genetics of the Xena-
coelomorpha (Xenoturbellida and Acoelomorpha) - a
newly identied phylum of worms that have been linked
to the deuterostomes.
The Research Associate will contribute to a comprehen-
sive comparative study of the genomes and transcrip-
tomes of the Xenacoelomorpha and their relatives.
The post is available immediately and is funded until
31st May 2018 in the rst instance.
The successful applicant will have a PhD (awarded or
about to be awarded) in a relevant area. The ideal
candidates will have a good knowledge of bioinformat-
ics and especially comparative genomics and a strong
interest in animal evolution. They will be responsible
for the assembly and annotation of genomes and tran-
scriptomes of members of the Xenacoelomorpha and for
developing and implementing methods to enable the
large scale analysis of these genomes and performing
comparisons with genomes from other metazoans in an
evolutionary framework.
For further details about the vacancy and how to apply
online please go to http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ and
search on Reference Number 1341661.
Please attach a CV and a brief personal statement, ex-
plaining how your qualications and experience make
you a suitable candidate for the post.
For informal queries about the post, please contact
Professor Max Telford, email: m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
. If you have any queries regarding the applica-
tion process, please contact Jeremy Guyer, email:
jeremy.guyer@ucl.ac.uk .
Closing Date: 10th July 2013.
Latest time for the submission of applications: 5 pm.
UCL Taking Action for Equality
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department of Ge-
netics, Evolution and Environment, University Col-
lege London, Darwin Building, Gower Street, London
WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554 (Internal:
32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096
a new open access journal EvoDevo: http://-
www.evodevojournal.com/ Telford & Littlewood: An-
imal Evolution. OUP <http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/-
product/9780199570300.do >
Software to align Nucleotide sequence according
to Amino Acid translation TranslatorX <http://-
www.translatorx.co.uk >
Files and software for downloading: <
http://web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
Downloads.html >
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis. Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y
structure data in rRNA phylogenetic analyses. MtZoa
and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution matrices
Hacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
Xenoturbella You Tube video < http://-
uk.youtube.com/watch?v=3DyJXNcoxL2Xs >
The Linnean Society of London <http://-
www.linnean.org/ >
m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh EvolBiol
Postdoctoral Researcher, University of Edinburgh
Applications are invited for a 5-month appointment as
Post-doctoral Researcher based in the Institute of Evo-
lutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh. The posi-
tion is funded by a Wellcome Trust project grant.
Applicants should have, or shortly obtain, a PhD in
evolutionary genetics or bioinformatics and have expe-
rience in computer programming and population genet-
ics or molecular evolution. The project aims to increase
the understanding of the nature and strength of natu-
ral selection operating in various kinds of functional
elements of the mammalian genome. In particular, the
post holder could work on the evolutionary genetics of
adaptation in the murid genome by analysis of next-
generation sequence data of multiple individuals sam-
pled from natural populations.
Informal enquiries can be made to pe-
ter.keightley.ed.ac.uk
Peter Keightley Professor of Evolutionary Genet-
ics Institute of Evolutionary Biology University of
Edinburgh West Mains Rd Edinburgh EH9 3JT
UK http://homepages.ed.ac.uk/eang33/ Full applica-
tions by 24th June 2013 can be made under refer-
ence 014484 at https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/ pe-
ter.keightley@ed.ac.uk
UHouston CiliateMutationPOSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE OPEN-
ING
The Zufall Lab at the University of Houston is seeking
a Postdoctoral Research Associate in the area of Evo-
lutionary Genetics to create and study mutation accu-
mulation lines in the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila.
These lines will form the basis of an NIH funded collab-
oration with the Azevedo (University of Houston) and
Cartwright labs (Arizona State University), which will
take advantage of the unusual nuclear architecture of
ciliates to study the rate, types, and tness eects of
spontaneous mutation.
As part of this project, the postdoc is expected to be
able to: develop and culture T. thermophila mutation
accumulation lines, conduct genetic analyses and tness
assays on these lines, and interpret data using compu-
tational and statistical analyses in collaboration with
the Azevedo and Cartwright labs. Candidates should
possess a Ph.D. in Evolution or Genetics. Experience
with microbial eukaryotes is desirable and skill in com-
putational and statistical analysis is preferred.
Information about the labs involved can be found
here: bchs.uh.edu/ ~rzufall, wwworm.biology.uh.edu,
and cartwrig.ht/lab
Applications can be made at jobs.uh.edu (Posting
Number: S001408) and must include a cover letter, de-
tailed CV, and names of 3 references. The initial closing
date is July 15, 2013, but applications will continue to
be accepted and considered until the job is lled/closed.
The University of Houston is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. Minorities, women,
veterans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged
to apply.
Contact Becky Zufall at rzufall@uh.edu for more infor-
mation.
rzufall@uh.edu
UHouston ExperimentalEvolution
Post-doctoral position in experimental evolution:
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral position in
Tim Cooper's lab in the Department of Biology and
Biochemistry at the University of Houston.
The successful applicant will examine the basis of evolv-
ability - dierences in the capacity to adapt to novel en-
vironments - in bacterial populations. This project will78 EvolDir July 1, 2013
extend existing approaches to evaluating evolvability,
examine its inuence on evolutionary outcomes, and
test candidate mechanisms that might explain dier-
ences in evolvability. Work will initially focus on lab-
evolved populations of Escherichia coli and then extend
to natural isolates. Research will involve a combination
of molecular genetic and genomic techniques. (Funded
by the National Science Foundation.)
The University of Houston is a member of the Texas
Medical Center - a large, diverse and vibrant research
community that includes many laboratories working at
the intersection of experimental, theoretical and sys-
tems biology.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biology or a re-
lated discipline and should have experience in molecular
and/or evolutionary genetics. Microbiology experience
would be an advantage. The initial term of the position
will be for a period of one year with the likelihood of
a one year extension. Applications should be emailed
to Tim Cooper (tfcooper@uh.edu). Review will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
Applications should include a cover letter, CV and the
names and contact details of three referees.
Houston is a diverse, growing, and very livable city. It
has many good bars and restaurants, and has one of
the largest amounts of green space of any US city.
Tim Cooper Department of Biology and Biochem-
istry University of Houston http://cooperlab.org
tim.f.cooper@gmail.com
ULausanne AntEvolution 2pdf
1PhD
*1 PhD position and 2 postdoctoral positions: Ant be-
haviour/ genomics/ bioinformatics* University of Lau-
sanne, Department of Ecology and Evolution We are
looking for one PhD student and two postdoctoral re-
searchers to work on three lines of research in Laurent
Keller's group:
*1. Ant behaviour*. The idea is to study the dynam-
ics of division of labour with a new system based on
ducial identication labels and video tracking. This
system which automatically follows all the individuals
in a colony will allow the rst quantitative studies of
behaviour.
*2. Articial evolution with robots*. We want to
study how the level of cooperation within colonies, thereliability of communication systems and division of
labour have been shaped by within-colony relatedness
and other social factors.
*3. Ant genomics*. We are currently sequencing the
re ant genome and are looking for bioinformaticians
and molecular biologists interested in making use of
this genome to address questions related to social be-
haviour. Other topics of research on social behaviour
are also possible if they t the research interests of our
group:
http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7717.html These posi-
tions will be funded by an ERC-funded grant and/or
the Swiss FNS, and will be lled as soon as suitable
candidates are found.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a well-
funded and vibrant research institution, with superb
facilities:
http://www.unil.ch/dee/page5090 en.html Applica-
tion can be sent to nathalie.stroeymeyt@unil.ch. Ap-
plications should comprise a CV, a list of publications,
1 page describing why you are interested in joining our
group and two letters of reference. Only complete ap-
plications will be considered.
Nathalie Stroeymeyt <Nathalie.Stroeymeyt@unil.ch >
ULausanne OwlPolymorphisms
One-year PostDoc position at the University
of Lausanne, Prof. Alexandre Roulin (Alexan-
dre.Roulin@unil.ch)
Polymorphisms of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) poly-
morphisms as well as alteration of POMC maturation
by the proprotein convertase (PC)-1/3 are crucial de-
terminants for physiology and behavior in humans and
animals, including feeding behavior, skin pigmentation,
stress response, the immune system, and sexual func-
tions. Barn and tawny owls are a powerful system
to study the role of POMC in this context. Our ex-
tensive studies over the past years acquired a unique
and comprehensive set of phenotypic and genetic data
for over 4000 individual birds. These studies revealed
striking correlations between genetic polymorphisms in
POMC precursors and specic alterations in PC1/3.
Undetectable PC1/3 expression and mutant PC1/3, in
barn owl growing feathers and brain respectively, co-
incides with a unique POMC polymorphism character-
ized by poly-serine insertions. In the present project,July 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
we will undertake an in-depth molecular characteriza-
tion of the system to establish a link between the ob-
served POMC polymorphisms and PC1/3 variants. Us-
ing state-of the-art biochemical and cell biology tech-
niques, we will characterize the physiological impor-
tance of POMC polymorphism found in barn owls and
link these mechanistic data to the available physiologi-
cal and behavioral observations. This interdisciplinary
project directed by Prof. Alexandre Roulin (Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution, UNIL) will for the rst
time illuminate the molecular basis underlying the role
of POMC in complex behavioral patterns of a highly
relevant species. For this exciting project, we are look-
ing for a post-doctoral candidate with a strong back-
ground in biochemistry and molecular biology. Finan-
cial support is guaranteed for one year according to the
salary levels of Swiss national Science Foundation with
the option of prolongation.
alexandre.roulin@unil.ch
UMichigan PlantGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Baucom
lab, which is relocating to the EEB dept at the Uni-
versity of Michigan in Ann Arbor this July. Mem-
bers of the lab work on projects that range from plant
evolutionary ecology to plant population genetics and
comparative genomics: see (http://baucomlab.org/-
Baucom Home.html) for more information about our
ongoing projects.
For this postdoctoral position, we seek an enthusiastic
and independent researcher interested in the role of the
plant metagenome (microbial and eukaryotic root asso-
ciates) on the evolution of weediness and invasiveness.
The work thus requires basic molecular lab and eld
ecology experience, along with previous experience an-
alyzing large genomic datasets and basic command line
capabilities.
Funding for this position is available for 2 years (contin-
gent upon satisfactory progress). To apply, please send
a single pdf with a cover letter, a CV, 1-2 representa-
tive publications, and names and contact information
for 3 references to gina.baucom@gmail.com by July 10.
Start date is exible.
If interested in this position, I will be at the SSE meet-
ings in Snowbird and very happy to discuss the oppor-
tunities in the lab personally { please contact me via
email prior to the meeting.The University of Michigan is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer.
Regina S. Baucom baucomlab.org <http:/-
/baucomlab.org/Baucom Home.html >
gina.baucom@gmail.com
gina.baucom@gmail.com
UMontpellier CancerEvolution
*Postdoctoral research opportunity - \Evolutionary
models of cancer progression and therapies" V Univer-
sity of Montpellier, France*
* *
We are looking for a motivated Postdoctoral researcher
to employ mathematical and/or computer models to
better understand the evolutionary dynamics of can-
cer progression and chemotherapeutic treatments. We
are especially interested in applications of ecology, evo-
lution, and population genetics towards more general
descriptions and ultimately predictive theories.
The Postdoc is for two years, with a starting date on
or before January 1st, 2014. The contract is funded by
INSERM Cancer and is in collaboration with two cell
biology research laboratories (Pr. Urszula Hibner and
Pr. Daniel Fisher, IGMM).
Selection criteria: (1) PhD; (2) Considerable experience
in mathematical or computer modeling in the context
of cell biology, population ecology and/or evolutionary
biology; (3) Command of written scientic English; (4)
Demonstrated track record of refereed publications in
leading journals; (5) Demonstrated capacity to work
under limited supervision.
Interested candidates should send (1) a letter of mo-
tivation, (2) a CV, and (3) the names, institutional
addresses, and emails of 3 persons who can be con-
tacted for references, on or before July 30th, 2013 to
Michael Hochberg ( mhochber@univ-montp2.fr). Infor-
mation about our interdisciplinary research group can
be found at http://www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/people/-
mike-hochberg/ Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-
montp2.fr >80 EvolDir July 1, 2013
UMontpellier HIV Bioinformatics
POSTDOC POSITION \BIOINFORMATICS OF
HIV"
Computational Biology Institute (IBC) http://-
www.ibc-montpellier.fr/ LIRMM, CNRS - Universit e
Montpellier 2, France http://www.lirmm.fr/xml/fr/-
lirmm.html A postdoctoral position is available at
IBC to work on the Bioinformatics of HIV. IBC aims
at the development of innovative methods and software
to analyze, integrate and contextualize large-scale
biological data in the elds of health, agronomy and
environment. IBC is a new multidisciplinary project
center with broad spectrum, ranging from algorithmics
and mathematical modeling, to genomics, cancer and
epidemiology. IBC should become a privileged meeting
place for computational biology and bioinformatics
researchers, bringing together a large community
on regional, national and international levels(e.g.
http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2013/).
The postdoc is focused on the evolutionary studies of
HIV. We authored a number of phylogenetic programs
(e.g. PhyML) and recently started applying these ap-
proaches to viruses (e.g. phylotype.org/). Our aim is to
develop new fast methods able to handle the bunch of
HIV sequence data that are available today and per-
form various analyses: dating, phylogeography, phy-
loanatomy, search for clusters of resistance..., which
currently require huge computations with standard
Bayesian methods. Fast algorithms will be designed,
based on simplied approaches (distance, parsimony,
simple probabilistic models), to be typically applied
to day-to day surveillance tasks, personalized medicine
and large scale epidemiological studies. We are collab-
orating with several groups and researchers (Martine
Peteers (FR), Tulio de Oliveira (ZA), Stephane Hue
(UK), Tanja Stadler (SW)). Various subjects are en-
visaged to be discussed with applicants (e.g. searching
for therapy resistance clusters in the UK population
(~50.000 strains); fast inference of relaxed clock trees
for dating purpose).
We are seeking highly qualied and motivated appli-
cants in modeling and/or algorithmics, with exten-
sive programming experience and a strong interest for
viruses and evolutionary studies.
To apply send a detailed CV, a motivation letter and
three references to Olivier Gascuel (gascuel@lirmm.fr),before June 20. Questions welcome!
................................... Olivier Gascuel
Directeur de Recherche Institut de Biologie Computa-
tionnelle LIRMM, UMR 5506 CNRS - Universit e Mont-
pellier 2 Case courrier 06011, 95 rue de la Gal era 34095
Montpellier c edex 5 - FRANCE Tel. 33 (0)4 67 41 85
47 http://www.lirmm.fr/gascuel gascuel@lirmm.fr
Olivier Gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >
UPennsylvania EvolBiol
Postdoctoral Fellowships for Academic Diversity
The Postdoctoral Fellowship for Academic Diversity
Program is a competitive program whose goal is to in-
crease the diversity of the community of scholars de-
voted to academic research. We seek to attract promis-
ing researchers and educators from dierent back-
grounds, races, ethnic groups, and other diverse pop-
ulations whose life experience, research experience and
employment background will contribute signicantly to
the academic mission. Fellowships are available for
postdoctoral training in all areas of study at Penn. Suc-
cessful candidates will receive mentored scholarly and
research training as well as courses and workshops to
enhance their research success skills and prepare them
for a faculty position in a major university.
Eligibility
* Graduate students from PENN and other institu-
tions who have completed, or will complete their re-
quirements for Ph.D. by the Fellowship start date. *
Postdoctoral scholars from other institutions who have
completed their dissertation within the last three years.
* Professional applicants (M.D., D.M.D., V.M.D., J.D.,
etc) within a year of completing their post-degree pro-
fessional training. * Candidates must be US citizens or
permanent residents. * Postdocs, residents and fellows
who currently have a position at Penn are ineligible for
this program.
Awards: Fellows receive a stipend of $43,000 in year
1 with $2,000 increments in years 2 and 3, as well
as annual allowances for travel ($2,000) and research
($5,000), and a one-time relocation expense of $5,000.
The University also provides a medical, vision, dental
and life insurance benets package. Successful candi-
dates will receive highly mentored scholarly and re-
search training as well as courses and workshops to en-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
hance their research success skills and prepare them for
a faculty position in a major university.
Start date will be arranged in consultation with the
faculty mentor but can be as early as January 2, 2014.
More Information at: http://www.upenn.edu/-
research/postdocs students/postdoctoral fellowships f
oracademic diversity/
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D. David and Lyn Sil-
fen University Professor Departments of Ge-
netics and Biology University of Pennsylvania
Tel: 215-746-2670 tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
< http://www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/ >
http://www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/
tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
UPennsylvania EvolutionaryTheory
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP IN EVOLUTION-
ARY THEORY
A postdoctoral fellowship (2-3 years) is available in
the mathematical biology group of Dr. Joshua B.
Plotkin at the University of Pennsylvania (http://-
mathbio.sas.upenn.edu/).
The specic research project is exible and can be tai-
lored to the interests of the individual, but it will fall
under the broad purview of evolutionary and ecological
theory. Areas of interest in the Plotkin lab include the-
oretical population genetics, the evolution of robustness
and adaptability, the inference of tness landscapes, the
role of epistasis in evolution, and the evolution of lan-
guage and social norms.
Requirements for the position include: a proven record
of self- motivated research; expertise in mathematics,
statistics, physics, biology or related area; excellent
communication skills. The ideal candidate should also
be familiar with scientic programming.
The postdoctoral fellowship provides a competitive
annual stipend (minimum $40,000) plus benets and
health insurance. Start date and terms are negotiable.
Applications are welcome from candidates of any na-
tionality. Women and under-represented minorities are
especially encouraged to apply.
Applicants should email a statement of research inter-
ests, CV, and contact details for three references to
jplotkin (at) sas.upenn.edu. Informal inquiries are alsowelcomed.
Joshua B. Plotkin Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania http://mathbio.sas.upenn.edu/
jplotkin@sas.upenn.edu
UPorto
LivestockPopulationGenomics
TWO POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSO-
CIATES IN BIOINFORMATICS AND POPULATION
GENETICS
The Population Genomics and Traits Group at CIBIO-
University of Porto (http://cibio.up.pt) is seeking can-
didates for two Posdoctoral fellowships. The success-
ful candidates will be expected to engage in a vigorous
basic and applied research program focused on NGS
(next generation sequencing) and SNPchip data from
several domestic species and their wild relative species.
The initial appointment to this position is for three
years with a possible extension to six years. Requires
a PhD in biology eld or computer sciences with a
solid background on population genetics and evolution
as well strong experience with bioinformatics program-
ming languages in a unix environment (Perl, Python,
Javascript, SQL) and compiled languages (e.g. C++),
relational databases, and construction of computational
pipelines. Ability to work independently and with the-
oretical and empirical population genetics researchers is
important.The projects, which include SNPChip, and
Pool-Seq data require exper ience in working with large
SNP data sets and sequence data. Good programming
skills and familiarity with the available analysis tools
are essential. The goal of the research is to test hy-
potheses related to animal domestication and molecular
adaptation of populations and species to extreme envi-
ronments. The postdoctoral research will be mainly fo-
cused in population genomics, selection, and demogra-
phy of wild/domestic (livestock) species their parasites
from all over the world. This work will include a large
amount of data analysis, simulation, and bioinformat-
ics. Several interesting datasets are in hand, which will
allow the postdoc to analyze data and publish quality
manuscripts relatively quickly to advance the eld.
Instructions to Applicants: Applicants should submit
by email a cover letter describing interests, skills (in-
cluding any specic experience with the job respon-
sibilities listed above), prior scientic experience (at
least 1 year of posdoc and not less than 5 published82 EvolDir July 1, 2013
papers), and 3 publications (.pdfs) from peer-reviewed
journals (one at least as rst author), their CV, and
the names and contact information of 2 people who
can provide letters of reference. Applications as well as
demands for further information should be sent to Al-
bano Beja-Pereira to the following email address: pos-
doccall2012@cibio.up.pt
The successful candidate will apply to the Portuguese
National Science Agency (FCT) and it's expected to
start working in the rst months of 2014. Fellowship
wage will be 1495 euros /month (tax-free), with social
security and national health system assess included.
Application review will start at June 15, 2013 and con-
tinue until the position is lled.
albanobp@fc.up.pt
UPorto Phylogenetics
ONE POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE
IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND PHYLOGENET-
ICS
The Animal Diversity and Evolution Group
at CIIMAR-University of Porto ( http://-
www.ciimar.up.pt <http://cibio.up.pt/ >) is
seeking candidates for one Postdoctoral fellowship
under the annual application scheme ( http://-
www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/regulamento.phtml#BPD).
The successful candidate will apply to the Portuguese
National Science Agency (FCT) and depending on
the outcome is expected to start working in the rst
months of 2014. The research program focuses on
the evolution of lipid metabolism in metazoans. The
initial appointment to this position is for three years
with a possible extension to six years. It requires a
PhD in Molecular Biology and Phylogenetics and the
goal of the research is to test hypotheses related with
the evolution of lipid metabolic cascades in the context
of genome duplications as well as adaption to novel
habitats and food sources (e.g. colonization of land).
This work will include a large amount of data analysis
from available genomes and bioinformatics, as well as
functional genomics approaches.
Instructions to Applicants: applicants should submit
a cover letter describing their interests, skills, prior
scientic experience (no less than 6 published papers,
two at least as rst author), and 3 publications (.pdfs)
from peer-reviewed journals, their CV, and the namesand contact information of 2 referees. Applications as
well as requests for further information should be sent
to Filipe Castro to the following email address: l-
ipe.castro@ciimar.up.pt
The successful candidate will apply to the Portuguese
National Science Agency (FCT) and it's expected to
start working in the rst months of 2014. Fellowship
wage will be 1495 euros /month (tax-free), with so-
cial security and national health system assess included.
Application review will start at the June 15, 2013 and
continue until the position is lled.
{ Filipe Castro, PhD Biomedical Sciences Researcher
CIIMAR, Portugal email: llipecastro@gmail.com l-
ipe.castro@ciimar.up.pt
Filipe Castro <llipecastro@gmail.com >
URhodeIsland
MicroalgaeBioinformatics
*Postdoctoral Research Associate Position in Bioinfor-
matics: *
*Transcriptome analyses of large next-generation se-
quencing datasets*
**
The Menden-Deuer and Rynearson labs at the Univer-
sity of Rhode Island invite applications for a Postdoc-
toral Research Associate in bioinformatics and compu-
tational biology.
*Project Overview:*This project aims to examine,
quantify and understand gene expression in marine
plankton. Plankton are single-celled eukaryotes that
form the base of marine food webs and are therefore
critical to the health and well-being of the world's
oceans. This project represents an opportunity for a
talented and creative postdoctoral researcher to work
with sequencing data from ecologically important or-
ganisms.There will be opportunities to develop new or
utilize the most recent algorithms for transcriptome as-
sembly and mapping, particularly because most plank-
ton genomes have not yet been sequenced. Datasets in-
clude Illumina sequencing of plankton transcriptomes
from multiple species and experiments under dier-
ent conditions.The successful candidate will lead the
project on the de novo analysis of transcriptomic data,
which includes setting up and/or using available com-
putational pipelines for transcriptomic data processing,July 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
identifying novel 'high-responder' genes and statistical
comparison of multiple single-cell transcriptomes.The
rst dataset is ready for analysis.
*Responsibilities and Duties*: The postdoctoral asso-
ciate will be primarily responsible for analysis of the
high-throughput sequencing component of the project
(transcriptome sequence data). Responsibilities also in-
clude dissemination of results in publications and pre-
sentations and a willingness to assist with proposal
preparation. The individual will be required to con-
tribute to the functioning of the lab, assist with gradu-
ate and undergraduate student mentoring and help to
develop future research projects.
*Qualications*: Candidates are required to have a
Ph.D. degree by August of 2013 in Computer Sciences,
Statistics, Biology or a related eld. Excellent com-
mand of the English language (written and verbal) and
quantitative analytical skills are essential. Candidates
should possess demonstrable experience with the analy-
sis of high throughput sequencing data including strong
programming skills. We prefer candidates who have an
excellent background in statistics and data mining.
*Appointment*: The position is for 12-months initially,
commencing August or September 2013 and renewable
depending on performance. The successful candidate
will receive training in research collaboration, presenta-
tion and publication of results, and outreach and men-
toring. There will be opportunities for development of
additional research projects and proposals.
*To Apply*: Applications must include (1) a maxi-
mum 3-page statement of experience,* *career goals,
research vision and interests; (2) curriculum vitae, (3)
reprints of relevant publications and (4) names and
addresses of three referees willing to write condential
letters of recommendation. All materials should
be emailed as a single pdf document to: rynear-
son@mail.uri.edu with 'PostDoc Application' in the
subject line. Candidates will be selected based on
overall excellence, including academic qualications,
letters of recommendation, and prior skills, experience,
and research goals that are compatible with the goals
of the funded research. The position is compensated
through a competitive salary and excellent bene-
ts package. Please email rynearson@mail.uri.edu
<mailto:rynearson@mail.uri.edu >with additional
questions about the position.
Research will take place on the shores of Narragansett
Bay, RI at the URI Graduate School of Oceanogra-
phy.The labs are conveniently located along the east-
ern seaboard with easy access to Amtrak and major
airports.The candidate will benet from existing col-
laborations with researchers in computational biologyboth nationally and internationally.
*Closing date*: For full consideration, applications
should be received by July 1, 2013.Further infor-
mation: Rynearson lab: http://www.gso.uri.edu/-
users/rynearson Menden-Deuer lab: http://-
www.gso.uri.edu/smdlab URI Graduate School
of Oceanography: http://www.gso.uri.edu/ {
Tatiana Rynearson Associate Professor Gradu-
ate School of Oceanography University of Rhode
Island, Bay Campus South Ferry Road Nar-
ragansett, RI 02882-1197 Phone (401)874-6022
http://www.gso.uri.edu/users/rynearson rynear-
son@mail.uri.edu
USouthFlorida
EvolutionAvianDiseases
Post-doctoral opportunity in avian disease biology at
USF
Drs. Lynn B. Martin and Thomas R. Unnasch are
searching for a post-doc to collaborate on a recently
NSF-funded project on the ecophysiology of super-
spreading. The post-doc will help execute projects di-
rected at understanding the role of the stress hormones
on interactions among birds, mosquitoes and West Nile
virus.
Applicants should have a PhD (awarded before the
project start date) in ecology, evolutionary biology, or
the like. The most competitive individuals will have
a background in endocrinology, immunology, and/or
disease ecology and strong lab, experimental design
and data analysis skills. Experience with songbird
and mosquito husbandry/handling and ABSL-3 facil-
ity work are also pluses. A strong publication and
grantsmanship record as well as evidence of indepen-
dent thinking are also highly desirable. There are spe-
cic research aims for the grant, but our hope is for
strong intellectual contributions by the postdoc, includ-
ing postdoc-led side projects, manuscript rst author-
ships, and additional grant proposals.
The position can be supported for up to 3 years, but re-
newal each year is contingent on performance and fund-
ing. Only US citizens and permanent residents are eli-
gible for this position, as the research requires and FBI
clearance to work with select agents. The position is
based at the University of South Florida, Departments
of Integrative Biology and Global Health (Tampa cam-84 EvolDir July 1, 2013
pus). The start date is somewhat exible but can be
on or after November 15, 2013. Note: Dr. Martin ad-
vertised recently for another postdoc (with Dr. Toru
Shimizu, USF Psychology); the current position is dis-
tinct from that one.
Martin lab: http://lbmartin.myweb.usf.edu/-
Martin labatUSF/Welcome.html Unnasch
lab: http://health.usf.edu/publichealth/gh/-
Thomas+Unnasch.htm Applications should be
submitted by email as a single PDF document to Dr.
Lynn B. Martin (lbmartin@usf.edu) with the subject
heading 'NSF postdoc application'. Complete appli-
cation packets will include a cover letter, a CV, one
relevant reprint, and the names and addresses of three
referees preferably from former PhD/postdoc mentors.
In your (2 pg maximum) cover letter, make sure to
address your feelings about your: passion for scientic
investigation, motivation to succeed, drive, work ethic,willingness to take risks, ability to overcome hardship,
leadership capabilities, collaborative skills, and career
aspirations. Written conrmation of the PhD will be
required prior to hiring.
We will consider applications through 31 July 2013.
Applications from women and minorities are especially
encouraged. The University of South Florida is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Employer.
Thanks for your attention, and please email me with
any questions, Marty
Lynn B. Martin Associate Professor Department
of Integrative Biology University of South Florida
813-974-0157 lbmartin@usf.edu Lab website: http:/-
/lbmartin.myweb.usf.edu/Martin labatUSF/-
Welcome.html Google scholar page: http://-
scholar.google.com/citations?user=W7gGhjYAAAAJ
\Martin, Lynn" <lbmartin@usf.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Anagni Italy ScienticData Sep1-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Barcelona DynamicsModelling Feb4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Barcelona GenomicsBioinformatics Sep16-20 . . . . . . .85
Copenhagen SpeciesDistributionModels Aug26-30 . 86
CostaRica AmphibianDecline Jul29-Aug12 . . . . . . . . 86
CostaRica ArachnidEvolution Jan3-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
Leiden EvolutionOfNongeneticEects Dec9-13 . . . . . 88
Leiden MitochondrialEvolution Jul8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Leiden TropicalBiodiversity Feb3-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
MNHN Paris BEAST2 Jul4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Montana ConGen Sep2-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91NESCent EvolHumanViruses Nov2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
NESCent EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Aug5-10 . . . . 92
Portugal 2 Bioinformatics Jun13-14 27-28 . . . . . . . . . 92
Sevilla Spain ClimateAdaptation Sep30-Oct11 . . . . . 93
UIllinois TeachingEvolution Jul17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UMontreal CoalescentTheory Oct6-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UOulu EvoDevPopGenet Sep12-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UWashington SummerInstStatGenetics Jul8-26 New-
Modules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Anagni Italy ScienticData Sep1-7
Dear all,
we would like to inform you that the workshop entitled
'Scientic Data Sharing: An Interdisciplinary Work-
shop', will take place in Anagni, Italy, during the rstweek of September 2013.
Look at the preliminary programme <https://-
sites.google.com/site/openingsciencetosociety/news/-
anagni-programme >
There will be three sessions:
- *The foundations of Open Science* will be concerned
with the epistemological foundations of Open Science,
with a focus on the Open Data principles and the im-
pact of new technologies on the spread of scienticJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
knowledge.
- *Data sharing in the scientic practice: experiences
from dierent research elds*, in which empirical stud-
ies of data sharing practices in dierent research elds
(e.g. archaeology, biodiversity, biomedicine, genomics,
psychology) will be presented.
- *Facing the complexity of data sharing* will be ded-
icated to the discussion of the barriers to data sharing
and what can be done to increase its rate.
Furthermore, the round table entitled '*Toward an in-
tegrated approach to address scientic, educational and
public aspects of data sharing*' will provide an oppor-
tunity for invited speakers to answer specic questions
regarding data sharing in a wide perspective.
The list of speakers include: Neela Enke (Germany),
Bernardino Fantini, Ilaria Fava, Pietro Greco, Roberto
Lattanzi, Daniela Luzi, Fabio Parenti, Deborah Mas-
calzoni (Italy), Jelte Wicherts (Netherlands), Cather-
ine Heeney (Spain), Georey Boulton, Jennifer Molloy
(United Kingdom).
If you are interested in attending the meet-
ing please go to https://docs.google.com/-
forms/d/1fdW1sMgmV4z1qhiOEm04F7hjCdLlQ
EfY4CQecCiSlpY/viewform
Attendance to the meeting is free, but we can accept a
limited number of participants and *registration* (open
up to August 1st) *is* *mandatory*.
The organizers Paolo Anagnostou, Marco Capocasa
and Giovanni Destro Bisol
web site *Opening Science to Society * *https://-
sites.google.com/site/openingsciencetosociety *
Giovanni Destrobisol <giovanni.destrobisol@uniroma1.it >
Barcelona DynamicsModelling
Feb4-7
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \MODELLING DI-
NAMICS IN BIOLOGY", February 4-7, 2014.
Instructors: Dr. Andreea Munteanu (CGR, Spain)
and Dr. Carlos Rodrguez-Caso (Universidad Pompeu
Fabra, Spain)
Place: Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catal de Pa-
leontologia Miquel Crusafont, C/ de lEscola Industrial,23, 08201 Sabadell, Barcelona (Spain)
The current course will present an overview of systems
biology with emphasis on the necessity, uses and pit-
falls of dynamical modelling in biology. It introduces
the required language and philosophy for a smooth and
fruitful collaboration between life scientists and the-
oreticians (i.e. mathematicians, physicists, computer
scientists). The main goal of the course is not a de-
tailed description of the modelling tools in systems bi-
ology, but a thorough overview of the terminology and
applicability range of these methodologies. The time
dedication throughout the course will be one third for
theoretical introduction, and two thirds for modelling
applications for very diverse biological systems. The
participants will acquire the necessary skills to under-
stand and interpret models and modelling results from
scientic articles, and will take the rst steps into build-
ing their own mathematical models.
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Institut
Catal de Paleontologia
More info: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/syst-bio/intro-system-bio/ or writing to
courses@transmittingscience.org
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD. Course Director
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Barcelona GenomicsBioinformatics
Sep16-20
BARCELONA SUMMER SCHOOL IN GENOMICS
AND BIOINFORMATICS
This September the Barcelona Summer School in Ge-
nomics and Bioinformatics oers two courses:
Bioinformatic Analysis for Next Generation Sequenc-
ing Data This course will cover the theory and prac-
tical aspects of NGS data analysis, covering dierent
genomic, transcriptomic and epigenomic NGS analy-
ses. The course is designed to be of interest to masters
and PhD students with an interest in NGS data han-
dling and analysis, and will focus on the computational
and statistical challenges inherent in NGS data analy-
sis. Participants should have a background in bioinfor-
matics, computer science, statistics or other mathemat-
ical discipline. The course will include both theoretical86 EvolDir July 1, 2013
and practical sessions. Coordinated by Simon Heath,
Centre Nacional d?An?lisi Gen?mica.
Next Generation Sequencing for Medical Genomics In
this course we aim to familiarize the students with the
dierent NGS technologies and their applications to the
study of human genetic variation and disease. The
course will cover aspects from technology and infor-
matics to experimental design and data analysis. This
course is designed to be of interest for master and PhD
students preferentially with a background on human ge-
netics. The course will include theoretical and practi-
cal sessions. Coordinated by Ferran Casals, Universitat
Pompeu Fabra ? Institute of Evolutionary Biology.
Programs available at http://www.ibe.upf-csic.es/-
ibe/ pdf/bcnSSGB 1.pdf >From September 16th to
September 20th 2013, at Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
Barcelona.
Pre-registration: Please register at http://-
biologiaevolutiva.org/BSSGB2013/. Accepted
participants will receive the instructions for the
payment.
Number of participants: 25
Tuition: The registration fee of 500 Euros covers course
materials, coee breaks and lunches. Lodging costs are
not included in the registration fee. If needed we can
help participants to nd economic accommodation in
Barcelona.
Please contact bcnSSGB@gmail.com for further infor-
mation.
Ferran Casals IBE, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva
(UPF-CSIC) CEXS-Universitat Pompeu Fabra Parc
de Recerca Biom?dica Doctor Aiguader 88 08003
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain Tel. +34 93 316 08 64
ferran.casals@upf.edu
Copenhagen
SpeciesDistributionModels
Aug26-30
Closing soon!
We are now accepting applications for the international
PhD Course Modelling Species Distributions under Cli-
mate Change at the University of Copenhagen. Appli-
cation deadline is June 15; please note that applica-
tions sent outside of the application period will not beaccepted. Find out more about the course here: http:/-
/macroecology.ku.dk/teaching/int phdcourse/ Appli-
cants should send a letter including an explanation
about how the course will benet their PhD project, a
brief description of their PhD project and a short CV.
Maximum 2 pages. Deadline for application is 15th
June. Send the applications to David Nogu es-Bravo:
dnogues@bio.ku.dk
Katharine Marske, PhD Assistant Professor Center
for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate University of
Copenhagen Denmark
+45 51 33 10 15
http://macroecology.ku.dk/ KAMarske@bio.ku.dk
CostaRica AmphibianDecline
Jul29-Aug12
Hello all,
Below is a brief description of the Organization for
Tropical Studies' Microbial Ecology of Amphibian De-
cline, an upcoming graduate-level specialty course
which will be taught in Costa Rica from July 29 - Au-
gust 12, 2013. The course is worth 2 graduate aca-
demic credits transferable to all institutions within the
Organization for Tropical Studies consortium, which in-
cludes over 50 universities in the USA, Latin America,
South Africa and Australia. This course may be of in-
terest to students in the elds of microbial ecology, am-
phibian ecology, vertebrate survey techniques, disease
ecology and amphibian decline, emphasizing on modern
approaches: genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
http://ots.ac.cr/images/downloads/education/-
graduate/specialty-courses/amphi biandecline.pdf
or
http://bit.ly/10MDY4T
Your circulation of this material among graduate stu-
dents in dierent departments and programs would be
greatly appreciated.
Many thanks!
{
Microbial Ecology of amphibian decline
Microbes are essential components of the environment
because they provide key services that support ecosys-
tem functioning. Our ability to understand these mi-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
crobes has advanced substantially due to the recent de-
velopment of rapid, low-cost, high-throughput sequenc-
ing. Entire microbiomes can now be characterized to
understand both the identity and function of microbes
within these communities. As a result, we are now
gaining insights into microbial communities that are
associated with animals. These recent developments in
technology poise the eld of microbial ecology to make
important discoveries and advances regarding their re-
lationship to amphibian decline.
This course will present students with a variety of topics
relevant to the microbial ecology of amphibian decline,
emphasizing on modern OMICS approaches (genomics,
proteomics and metabolomics). During the rst part of
the course at La Selva Biological Station, students will
learn to identify and sample amphibians in the eld, de-
tect by culture dependent and molecular techniques of
both symbiotic and pathogenic microbes including Ba-
trachotrychium dendrobatidis (Bd) and ranavirus, as
well as build phylogenetic trees and analyze complete
genomes of these microbes. At the end of this period,
students will be able to design their own hypotheses
and test them the following week at the University of
Costa Rica, employing a combination of genetic, pro-
teomic and metabolomics approach.
Course Content
Through eldwork, computer-based and laboratory
analyses, this course will help students gain basic
knowledge and hands-on experience in the following di-
verse elds: amphibian ecology, vertebrate survey tech-
niques, disease ecology, isolation and laboratory culture
of amphibian pathogens, microbial ecology and diver-
sity, host-microbe symbioses, molecular biology, phylo-
genetics, next generation sequencing technologies, com-
parative genomics, proteomics and metabolomics.
Participants
The course will be held in Costa Rica and is limited to
20 students. We anticipate that half of the students will
come from Latin American institutions and about half
from U.S. institutions. All participants should be uent
in English. A working knowledge of Spanish would be
useful.
The course is intended for graduate students with an
interest in amphibian conservation, microbial ecology
or global change biology.
Course Instructors:
Adrian Pinto Director, Microscopic Structures Re-
search Center. Course Coordinator.
Ibrahim Zu~ niga Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Microbiology research.Invited Faculty
Bruno Lomonte Instituto Clodomiro Picado, Proteomic
research.
Godofredo Solano Centro de Investigaciones en Produc-
tos Naturales. Metabolomics research.
Gilbert Alvarado, DVM Microscopic Structures Re-
search Center. Pathology research.
Gabriel Vargas, Microscopic Structures Research Cen-
ter. Bioinformatics research.
Juan Abarca Microscopic Structures Research Center.
Field research.
Course dates: July 29 - August 12, 2013 (arrive July
28, depart 13 August)
Application Deadline: June 14, 2013. For priority con-
sideration, followed by open enrollment until lled.
Tuition: OTS consortium applicants $2300; non-
member applicants $2900
Tuition includes: all lodging (hotel and biological re-
search stations), all meals, all transportation within
Costa Rica, all course materials (sample equipment and
lab). Does not cover personal expenses or airfare.
Partial need-based scholarships are available; priority
given to OTS consortium and Latin American appli-
cants.
For more information please consult the OTS website
www.ots.ac.cr
or write to Andr es Santana andres.santana@ots.ac.cr or
Barbara Lewis barbara.lewis@ots.ac.cr for application
information
andres.santana@ots.ac.cr
CostaRica ArachnidEvolution
Jan3-17
Hello all,
Below is a brief description of the Organization for
Tropical Studies' Ecology and Evolution of Arachnids,
an upcoming graduate-level specialty course which will
be taught in Costa Rica from January 3-17, 2014. The
course is worth 2 graduate academic credits transferable
to all institutions within the Organization for Tropical
Studies consortium, which includes over 50 universities
in the USA, Latin America, South Africa and Australia.
This course is relevant for all graduate students inter-88 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ested in arthropods and upper level undergraduates in-
terested in being exposed to tropical research.
For more information go to http://bit.ly/12kdMC3
Your circulation of this material among graduate stu-
dents in dierent departments and programs would be
greatly appreciated.
Many thanks!
{
Ecology and Evolution of Arachnids
Unbeknownst to most biologists, the (mostly) preda-
tory group of arthropods known as arachnids encom-
passes eleven extant orders, many of which can be
found in the tropical forests of Central America. Within
this incredibly specious group we observe tremendous
diversity with respect to sensory systems (many of
them unique to particular groups); morphological adap-
tations/ specializations; foraging strategies; mating
strategies; communication systems; and ecological in-
teractions (among others).
Course Content
This course will incorporate eld-based observations,
inquiry-based learning programs, hands-on experience,
and interactive lectures to inform students of the basic
natural history, structure, and function of all arachnid
groups. Building upon this foundation, and in conjunc-
tion with knowledge gained through primary literature
discussions and synthesis, students will develop their
own research projects. Through eldwork and labora-
tory analyses, this course will help students gain ba-
sic knowledge and hand-on experience in the following
diverse elds as they pertain to arachnids: anatomy,
physiology, behavior, ecology, evolution, phylogenetics
and systematics. Additionally, students will be exposed
to pedagogical tools that will augment their academic
toolbox.
Course Objectives:
Delve into current scientic research and discover the
cutting edge questions and approaches implemented by
leading arachnologists.
Obtain fundamental understanding of arachnid evolu-
tion, with a focus on evolutionary relationships among
extant and extinct chelicerate groups.
Develop basic skills in arachnid collection, preserva-
tion, and identication
Participants
All participants should be uent in English. A working
knowledge of Spanish would be useful. This course is
relevant for all graduate students interested in arthro-pods and upper level undergraduates interested in being
exposed to tropical research.
Course Instructors:
Eileen Hebets, Ph. D. University of Nebraska.
Jason Bond, Ph. D. Auburn University.
Ingi Agnarsson, Ph.D. University of Vermont.
Greta Binford, Ph.D. Lewis and Clark College.
Jay Stafstrom, M. Sc. University of Nebraska. Teach-
ing Assistant.
Invited Faculty: Gilbert Barrantes, Ph.D. and William
Eberhard, Ph.D, from the University of Costa Rica.
Course dates: January 3-17 (arrive January 2, depart
January 18)
Application Deadline: October 1, 2013. (For priority
consideration, followed by open enrollment until lled).
Tuition: OTS consortium applicants $2000; non-
member applicants $2800
Tuition includes: all lodging (hotel and biological re-
search stations), all meals, all transportation within
Costa Rica, all course materials (sample equipment and
lab). Does not cover personal expenses or airfare.
Partial need-based scholarships are available; priority
given to OTS consortium and Latin American appli-
cants.
For more information please consult the OTS website
www.ots.ac.cr
or write to Andr es Santana andres.santana@ots.ac.cr or
Barbara Lewis barbara.lewis@ots.ac.cr for application
information
Andres Santana
Graduate Education Department
Organization for Tropical Studies
San Pedro, Costa Rica. 676-2050
(506) 2524-0607 ext. 1511
www.ots.ac.cr
Leiden
EvolutionOfNongeneticEects
Dec9-13
Workshop 'towards an Evolutionary The-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
ory of Nongenetic Eects' Lorentz Centre,
Leiden, the Netherlands December 9 - 13,
2013 http://transgenerational.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
LorentzWorkshop2013 Plenary speakers: Troy
Day (UQueens) Alex Badyaev (UArizona) Jason Wolf
(UBath) John McNamara (UBristol)
Organizing Committee: Rufus Johnstone (UCam-
bridge) Ido Pen (UGroningen) Bram Kuijper (UExeter)
Goals: An accumulating number of studies demonstrate
the widespread presence of alternative, non-genetic in-
heritance mechanisms, such as epigenetics, parental ef-
fects and cultural or ecological inheritance. As yet,
however, existing evolutionary theory poorly accounts
for these novel insights. The current workshop aims
to ll this gap by working on theoretical models that
provide testable predictions about the evolution of non-
genetic eects in various social and ecological contexts.
Workshop setup: The workshop will take 5 days, during
which we aim to identify the most timely questions that
arise when considering an extended evolutionary syn-
thesis which incorporates nongenetic inheritance. Each
day of the workshop consists mainly of hands-on work
in a number of small groups on theoretical problems,
and/or on synthesis papers dealing with the subject.
In between, there are number of plenary lectures and
discussion meetings.
How to apply? We have only a limited number of places
available for this workshop. Postgraduate researchers
(PhD, postdoc and beyond) who work on topics related
to nongenetic inheritance and who have an interest in
crossing the bridge between theory and data are partic-
ularly encouraged to apply. Apply by sending a CV (2
pages max) and a cover letter (750 words max) to Bram
Kuijper, bk319@cam.ac.uk. The application deadline is
July 15, 2013. Bringing your own laptop to the work-
shop will be required.
There is no registration fee for the workshop, but we
currently have no funding available to cover for accom-
modation or travel expenses.
More information can be found on the workshop's
website: http://transgenerational.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
LorentzWorkshop2013 Rufus Johnstone,
raj1003@hermes.cam.ac.uk Ido Pen, i.r.pen@rug.nl
Bram Kuijper, bk319@cam.ac.uk
\B. Kuijper" <bk319@cam.ac.uk >Leiden MitochondrialEvolution
Jul8-12
Dear all,
We still have some open spaces for the work-
shop 'Recent Insights in Mitochondrial Evolution
Applied to Health and Ageing' from July 8-12
in Leiden (http://www.lorentzcenter.nl/lc/web/2013/-
553/info.php3?wsid=553&venue=Oort). Please nd
a description below. Please note that there is no
registration fee for this workshop. You can regis-
ter at http://www.lorentzcenter.nl/lc/web/2013/553/-
info.php3?wsid=553&venue=Oort . 'Recent Insights in
Mitochondrial Evolution Applied to Health and Ageing'
Aim and description
The endosymbiosis theory envisions cytoplasmic or-
ganelles, such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, as en-
slaved entities whose presence is only benecial for the
cell. We now know that this view is incorrect and that
conicts, both among mitochondrial genes and between
mitochondrial and nuclear genes, are prevalent. Eu-
karyotic cells contain multiple mitochondria, each with
multiple mitochondrial genomes, and selection among
these genomes can reduce cell tness. As a consequence,
during somatic growth, deleterious mitochondrial mu-
tations can accumulate and may contribute to the de-
velopment of diseases such as cancer, and aging.
Recently, novel insights in the structure and transmis-
sion of mitochondria have been gained. Originally, it
was believed that mitochondria formed distinct units
within the cell, with separate genomes. However, we
now know that mitochondria are much more plastic,
that they frequently fuse to form networks, and divide
again, and that they consequently share a pool of mito-
chondrial genomes. This has important repercussions
for the way natural selection can act among mitochon-
dria and mitochondrial genomes within the cell. This
new insight may change the way in which we can ex-
plain the accumulation of mitochondrial changes during
senescence and cancerous growth.
This symposium will bring together researchers
studying the molecular details of such intra-cellular
processes, with medical researchers interested in
mitochondria-related diseases and evolutionary biolo-
gists interested in genetic conicts. The interaction of
these three elds will be reciprocally illuminating, as90 EvolDir July 1, 2013
so far these research elds have operated separately.
Combining the dierent kinds of expertise will pro-
vide researchers with the necessary details to make
more specic predictions about the consequences of mi-
tochondrial evolution, both long term and during so-
matic growth, on diseases and aging. Evolutionary bi-
ologists will gain from a deeper understanding of the
exact mechanisms underlying mitochondrial evolution,
whereas molecular and medical researchers will be able
to test specic predictions aimed at preventing or cur-
ing mitochondrial diseases.
Aims
This workshop will be considered a success if new col-
laborations are established between evolutionary biol-
ogists and medical researchers. We particularly hope
to encourage collaboration among junior scientists such
as PhD students, postdocs and early-career researchers.
As part of the program, we will include a half-day work-
shop on possibilities to apply for funding to establish
cross-disciplinary research programs (eg Human Fron-
tiers Science Program grants and Cross-disciplinary Re-
search Fellowships).
Duur Aanen, Madeleine Beekman, Marc Maas, Hans
Spelbrink.
Duur Aanen Laboratory of Genetics Wageningen
University and Research Center The Netherlands
Tel. +31(0)317 483144 Mobile: +31 (0)6 10327948
Fax: +31 (0)317 483146 http://www.gen.wur.nl/UK/-
Sta/Scientic%20Sta/Duur+Aanen \Aanen, Duur"
<duur.aanen@wur.nl >
Leiden TropicalBiodiversity Feb3-28
Field Course in Tropical Biodiversity (Malaysia)
Registration is open for an MSc-level eld course in
Tropical Biodiversity, to be held in Leiden, The Nether-
lands, and Sabah, Malaysian Borneo, in weeks 7, 8, 9,
and 10 of 2014. The course is organised by Naturalis
Biodiversity Center, and consists of two weeks of the-
ory in Leiden, followed by two weeks of eld projects
in Malaysia. Registration fee is 1,050 euros (this does
not include air travel). Successful completion of the
course is awarded with 6 EC. For more information,
see: http://science.naturalis.nl/students/veldcursus .
Menno Schilthuizen Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Lei-
den, The Netherlands
Prof. Dr. Menno Schilthuizen, professor for CharacterEvolution & Biodiversity Naturalis Biodiversity Center
and Leiden University Room A105, Van Steenis Lab,
Einsteinweg 2, 2333 CC Leiden, The Netherlands
Tel.: (+31-0)71-5687769, Mobile: (+31-0)6-22030313
Email: Menno.Schilthuizen@naturalis.nl Home-
page: science.naturalis.nl/schilthuizen <http://-
www.naturalis.nl/ >
Skype: mennoschilthuizen Twitter: @schilthuizen
Menno Schilthuizen <menno.schilthuizen@naturalis.nl >
MNHN Paris BEAST2 Jul4
Dear colleagues
As part of the academic exchange scheme involving the
University of Auckland and the Mus ee de l'Homme
funded by the EU FP7 program under the IRSES
scheme
there will be a one day workshop on the BEAST 2 soft-
ware package.
It will be given by Remco Bouckaert from the Dept of
Computer Science, University of Auckland,
on Thursday July 4th
in the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris,
France)
The day will consist of a seminar in the morning, fol-
lowed by an afternoon of hands-on use of the software
using example les
based on the Divergence Dating and STAR
BEAST tutorial. Both available from http://-
beast2.cs.auckland.ac.nz/ The seminar will act as
an introduction to several new models available in
BEAST2; these include:
* the birth-death-skyline model, which allows estima-
tion of parameters for epidemics,
* SNAPP, a multi-species coalescent model for SNP
data that allows estimation of species trees,
* substBMA, a substitution model for nucleotide data
that estimates per site rate and model parameters,
which tends to have a much better t to the data than
other models.
IMPORTANT
Due to a strict limitation on the numbers of partici-
pants, entrance to this one day course will be*by invi-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
tation only.*
People wishing to attend should register their interest
by Thursday June 20th, by sending a*CV* together
with a*letter of motivation*
to myself at*endicott@mnhn.fr*
Invitations will then be forwarded together will full de-
tails of the day's schedule and personal requirements
cordially
Phillip Endicott Co-ordinator of the NEFREX scheme
frederic.austerlitz@mnhn.fr
Montana ConGen Sep2-7
ConGen 2013 Population Genomic Data Analysis
Course http://www.popgen.net/congen2013/ Recent
Approaches for Estimation of Population Structure,
Gene-ow, Landscape Genomics, Selection Detection,
and the Analysis of Next-Gen Sequence Data.
2-7 September 2013 Flathead Lake Biological Station,
Montana, USA http://www2.umt.edu/bs/ Applica-
tions for 2013 edition are now open!
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
nomics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on next generation sequence data analysis
(RADs, exon capture, and whole genome sequence anal-
yses) and interpretation of output from recent novel
statistical approaches and software programs. The
course also will allow daily discussions among young
researchers (students/participants) and leaders in con-
servation genomics to help develop the \next genera-
tion" of conservation geneticists. We will identify and
discuss developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 25-30 people allowing ecient instruction
with hands-on computer exercises during the course.
Priority will be given to persons with their own data toanalyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we typi-
cally provide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, dis-
cussion and introduction to concepts. Immediately fol-
lowing, we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60
minutes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and lodging
together of the instructors and students in the same lo-
cation (the beautiful Flathead Lake eld station) will
allow for extensive exchange and facilitate learning.
Cost (before July 1st): $US 1,300 - which includes all
lodging, meals (& coee breaks etc.), transportation
(to/from airport and Glacier National Park), a eld
trip to Glacier Park, and power point slide shows of all
lectures (as well as audio-visual recordings of each lec-
ture, including \question & answering sessions"). USD
$1,500 if payment after July 1st.
Deadline for application is 1 July, 2013
More information on http://www.popgen.net/-
congen2013/ tiagoantao@gmail.com
NESCent EvolHumanViruses
Nov2013
Dear colleagues,
Sarah Cobey and I are leading a NESCent working
group on the evolution of common human viruses (de-
scription below and here https://www.nescent.org/-
science/awards summary.php?id=3D404). A working
group consists of 10-12 people and meets 3 times for 3-4
days to work on a collaborative project. We have de-
cided to leave several spaces in the working group open
to researchers whom we don't know, or whose interest
we haven't suspected. We currently have an overrep-
resentation of USA-based researchers, so we especially
encourage researchers outside the USA to apply. The
group is open to all levels of seniority (graduate student
- PI).
If you are interested in joining our working group,
please read the description below carefully and visit
the relevant NESCent site (http://www.nescent.org/-
science/workinggroup.php). Please then send us a one-
page pdf that includes a short description of your inter-
ests, background, and reasons for wanting to join the
working group. We will decide whom to invite based
on replies received by June 23, 2013.92 EvolDir July 1, 2013
Working group description: The rst aim of our group
is to perform a comparative review of how viruses in
humans are evolving and why, focusing on antigenic
phenotype. We will start by considering the relative
(census) population sizes of dierent groups of viruses
and select a dozen or so common candidates. We'll
review what is known about each virus's antigenicity,
population structure, genetic evolution, and other as-
pects of phenotypic evolution. One of our outcomes will
be identication of the viral groups and aspects of vi-
ral evolution that are understudied. Next, we will turn
to theory, asking why we see the genetic and antigenic
patterns that we do. We'll consider the phylodynamic
framework, examining it in light of various denitions
of antigenic phenotype and correlating the trends we
nd in human viral evolution with viral life history and
epidemiology. The expected outcome will be a perspec-
tive paper addressing these questions and related ideas
deemed important by the group. Our last ma jor goal is
to create a collaborative environment that immediately
enriches members' research and that may lead to future
projects. For this reason, we aim to include scientists
with diverse methodological backgrounds and dierent
model viruses, who remain interested in the overarching
questions.
The working group will meet three times, each for 3-
4 days. The rst meeting will occur in November 4-7,
2013, and the remaining two in early 2014 (dates TBD).
All meetings will take place in North Carolina. NES-
Cent will cover all travel expenses. Group members are
expected to attend all three meetings.
Kind regards, Sarah Cobey and Pleuni Pennings
Pleuni Pennings Website: http://-
pleunipennings.wordpress.com/ Petrov lab website:
http://petrov.stanford.edu/ pleuni@stanford.edu
NESCent
EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Aug5-10
Title: Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Instruc-
tors: Stevan Arnold, Joe Felsenstein, Thomas Hansen,
Trudy Mackay, Brian O'Meara, Patrick Phillips, Liam
Revell, Josef Uyeda Dates: August 5-10, 2013 Ap-
plication review begins: June 1, 2013 Website:
academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center, Durham, NC, USA
As part of the NESCent Academy, we are pleased toopen applications for Evolutionary Quantitative Ge-
netics. In this workshop we will review the basics of
theory in the eld of evolutionary quantitative genetics
and its connections to evolution that is observed at var-
ious time scales. Quantitative genetics deals with the
inheritance of measurements of traits that are aected
by many genes. Quantitative genetic theory for natural
populations was developed considerably in the period
1970-90 and up to the present time. It has been applied
to a wide range of phenomena including the evolution
of dierences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life
history traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evo-
lution of body size and other morphological measure-
ments. Textbooks have not kept pace with these de-
velopments, and currently few universities oer courses
in this subject aimed at evolutionary biologists. There
is a need for evolutionary biologists to understand this
eld because of the ability to collect large amounts of
data by computer, the development of statistical meth-
ods for changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for
changes in a single species through time, and the re-
alization that quantitative characters will not soon be
fully explained by genomics. This workshop aims to
ll this need by reviewing basic aspects of theory and
illustrating how that theory can be tested with data.
Participants will learn to use R, an open-source sta-
tistical programming language, to build and test evo-
lutionary models. The intended participants for this
workshop are graduate students, postdocs, and junior
faculty members in evolutionary biology.
The course is co-sponsored by the American Society of
Naturalists, and reduced tuition will be oered to par-
ticipants who are ASN members.
Questions? email academy@nescent.org
{
karen.cranston@gmail.com
@kcranstn
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@gmail.com >
Portugal 2 Bioinformatics Jun13-14
27-28
APPLICATIONS ARE *OPEN* FOR:
IPTB13 - Introduction to Phylogenetic Tree-Building
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/IPTB13/
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course Deadline for ap-July 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
plications: *June 7th 2013* Notication of acceptance
within 72 hours of application. Course date: June 13th
and June 14th 2013
Course fee: Euro 160.00
The course will cover, at a basic level, building phyloge-
netic trees based on molecular sequence data. This will
include the general context and uses of tree-building,
choosing models of DNA and protein evolution, tree-
building methods including distance, parsimony, max-
imum likelihood and Bayesian MCMC, and condence
in results.
Thanks
Pedro
{ { Pedro Fernandes Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia
Apartado 14 2781-901 OEIRAS PORTUGAL Tel +351
21 4407912 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt |{
APPLICATIONS ARE *OPEN* FOR:
AWGSMD13 - Analysing Whole-Genome Shotgun
Metagenomic Data
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/-
AWGSMD13/ Deadline for applications: June
21st 2013 Notication of acceptance within 72 hours
of application. Course date: June 27th and June 28th
2013
Course fee: Euro 160.00
In this two-day *intermediate-level* course we will
cover the basics of analysing whole-genome shotgun
metagenomics data generated from high-throughput se-
quencing instruments. This would interest those inter-
ested in taxonomic and functional characterisation of
complex microbial communities from clinical or envi-
ronmental samples. Topics covered will include design
of sequencing experiments, quality control of data, de
novo assembly and co-assembly, mapping reads to ref-
erence assemblies, contig clustering, whole-genome and
haplotype reconstruction methods, taxonomic assign-
ment of contigs, and cross-sample comparisons of mi-
crobial communities.
Target Audience The course will suit those already fa-
miliar with bioinformatic analysis of microbial whole-
genome sequences and/or 16S phylogenetic proling
who now wish to gain knowledge of new techniques for
whole-genome metagenomic studies.
Course Pre-requisites The course will be performed on
Linux workstations and will feature a large hands-on
component with real datasets, therefore knowledge of
the UNIX command-line is essential, as well as famil-
iarity with microbial genomics and ecology and a basic
grasp of statistics.Thanks
Pedro
{ Pedro Fernandes Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia
Apartado 14 2781-901 OEIRAS PORTUGAL Tel +351
21 4407912 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Pedro Fer-
nandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
Sevilla Spain ClimateAdaptation
Sep30-Oct11
The Estaci on Biol ogica de Do~ nana (CSIC) (Sevilla,
Spain) invites applications for its fourth international
course on climate change entitled 'Ecological Conse-
quences of Climate Change: Integrating Research Ap-
proaches' taking place from 30 September to 11 October
2013 in the heart of Do~ nana National Park. The course
is open to students at the early postdoc, PhD and
Master/advanced Diploma levels who are involved in
global-change research. Its aim is to provide a synthetic
overview upon dierent research perspectives ranging
from paleoecology to population genetics, ecophysiol-
ogy and bioclimatic modeling. The course will include
lectures and practical exercises provided by an interna-
tional panel of high-prole researchers, as well as eld
trips within the National Park.
Invited teachers:
Isabelle Chuine, CEFE (CNRS), Montpellier, France.
Solomon Dobrowski, University of Montana, USA.
Mary Edwards, University of Southampton, UK. Arndt
Hampe, UMR1202 BIOGECO (INRA), Cestas, France.
Ingolf K uhn, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental
Research-UFZ, Germany. Jorge Lobo, Museo Na-
cional de Ciencias Naturales (CSIC), Madrid, Spain
Fernando Valladares, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Nat-
urales (CSIC), Madrid, Spain
Organizers: Juan Jos e Negro, director of Estaci on
Biol ogica de Do~ nana, and Arndt Hampe.
The course language will be English. Support from
the Gas Natural Chair 'Biodiversity Conservation un-
der Climate Change' and 7FP project ECOGENES,
enables us to limit registration fees to 100 Euros and
to cover all costs for transportation between Sevilla
and Do~ nana National Park, accommodation and meals
during the 2-weeks course. Applicants should pro-
vide a brief CV (max. two pages) as well as a state-
ment (max. 500 words) about their research inter-94 EvolDir July 1, 2013
ests/current projects and why they would like to attend
to the course. Application deadline is 7 July. Please
send applications in a single pdf le and any related
questions to Bego~ na Arrizabalaga (bego@ebd.csic.es).
Bego~ na Arrizabalaga Coordinaci on Direcci on Estaci on
Biol ogica de Donana (CSIC). Americo Vespucio s/n.
Isla de la Cartuja. E-41092 Sevilla. Espa~ na. Tlno.
+34 95 4466707/00 Fax +34 95 4621125 e-mail:
bego@ebd.csic.es
Bego~ na Arrizabalaga <bego@ebd.csic.es >
UIllinois TeachingEvolution Jul17-19
Please forward to teachers in your area who might be
interested. All teachers are welcome, but we suspect
that this workshop will be of interest to biology teach-
ers in the Midwest.
Workshop in Evolutionary Biology: Developing Tools
to Teach Evolution and Dispel Common Misconcep-
tions
A teacher workshop in evolutionary biology is being
hosted at the University of Illinois at Champaign-
Urbana by the laboratories of Dr. Alison Bell, Dr. Zac
Cheviron, and Dr. Becky Fuller from Wednesday, July
17 to Friday, July 19, 2013.
Who should apply? This workshop is open to secondary
science teachers and informal science educators inter-
ested in evolution.
How to apply: Contact Becky Fuller
(fuller@life.uiuc.edu) if interested.
Description: This workshop is an opportunity for teach-
ers to interact with nationally and internationally ac-
claimed evolutionary biologists involved in cutting-edge
research. It incorporates scientic presentations, dis-
cussions, and original lesson plans all aimed at help-
ing teachers incorporate evolution into their classrooms.
We will review the evidence for evolution and common
misconceptions held by students. There is an emphasis
on current topics, ongoing research, and real data.
Participants will receive a $250 stipend, breakfast and
lunch, continuing professional development credits, and
a copy of the book 'Why Evolution is True'. Housing
is provided for out-of-town participants.
Goals: (1) Provide an introduction to evolutionary
concepts and common misconceptions of students; (2)Develop a framework for engaging students in critical
thinking about evolution; (3) Provide dynamic tools
and lesson plans for teachers; (4) Build bridges between
educators, scientists, and students.
The deadline for application is June 15, 2013.
More details on the workshop can be found
at - http://www.life.illinois.edu/evolutionworkshop/-
Evolution Workshop/Summer Workshop.html Spon-
sored by the School of Integrative Biology, the De-
partment of Animal Biology, and the National Science
Foundation.
Becky Fuller Associate Professor University of Illinois
Animal Biology
Becky Fuller <fuller@life.illinois.edu >
UMontreal CoalescentTheory
Oct6-11
On behalf of the Centre for Mathematics Research, and
as part of the Thematic Semester on Biodiversity and
Evolution (2013), we are pleased to announce the ge-
nomics workshop, \Coalescent Theory: Developments
and Applications, October 7-11, 2013.
Details of the meeting, including registration
can be found at the following site: http:/-
/www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Coalescent13/-
index e.php . Overview: Coalescent theory is one
of the most elegant and powerful probabilistic ap-
proaches in mathematical population genetics. It
formalizes the backward perspective on evolution in
large nite populations, providing a link between
evolutionary models and empirical data.
Researchers who are actively working on algorithms for
the analysis of human genetic data and the mapping
of disease genes benet from new theoretical develop-
ments. There are now massive genomic programs asso-
ciated with whole-genome sequencing of very deep pedi-
grees, 1000s of complete genomes sampled from pop-
ulations, and in some cases, the sequencing of entire
populations.
This workshop is an opportunity to bring together the-
oretical and empirical molecular evolutionists, math-
ematical population geneticists, statisticians and epi-
demiologists to study new theoretical developments
in coalescent theory and to discuss current challenges
raised by the availability of large amounts of geneticJuly 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
data.
This workshop will be preceeded by the mini-course:
Theoretical and Applied Tools in Population and
Medical Genomics, October 6, 2013. Registra-
tion information for the mini-course can be found
at http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Population13/-
index e.php Conrmed Speakers: G. Abecassis (Michi-
gan) A. Auton (Albert Einstein, Yeshiva) J. Berestycki
(Pierre et Marie Curie) M. Birkner (JGU Mainz) J.
Blath (TU Berlin) A. Clark (Cornell) G. Coop (UC
Davis) J. Degnan (Canterbury) S. Evans (UC Berke-
ley) W. Ewens (Pennsylvania) S. Gravel (McGill) R.
C. Griths (Oxford) O. Hossjer (Stockholm) J. Hussin
(Montr eal, Oxford) T. Mailund (AArhus) S. Mano
(ISM Tokyo) P. Marjoram (USC) G. McVean (Oxford)
S. Myers (Oxford) J. Novembre (Chicago) N. Rosenberg
(Stanford) Y. Song (UC Berkeley) J. Wakeley (Har-
vard) Y. Wu (Connecticut) X. Zhou (Concordia).
Instructors for the mini-course are: J. Hussin
(Montr eal, Oxford) J. Novembre (Chicago) J. Wakeley
(Harvard)
We hope to see you in October!
Organizing committee: Philip Awadalla (Montr eal,
McGill) Robert C. Griths (Oxford) Fabrice Larribe
(UQAM) Sabin Lessard (Montr eal)
Philip Awadalla <awadallp@gmail.com >
UOulu EvoDevPopGenet Sep12-13
EARLY ANNOUNCEMENT: Welcome to Workshop
on Evolutionary, Developmental and Population Ge-
netics on September 12-13 2013 in the University of
Oulu, Finland. The event is organized in cooperationby the Biocenter Oulu Doctoral Programme (BCO-DP)
and the national Population Genetics Graduate School
(PopGenSchool).
Fellow bioscientists, please keep these dates free to at-
tend this workshop. There will be talks about e.g.,
epigenetics, experimental evolution and EvoDevo.
Conrmed speakers:
Brandon Gaut Miltos Tsiantis Hadi Valadi Ram Reshef
Jukka Jernvall Racel Giles Moises Mallo Mark Hankins
A detailed programme will be posted later.
For further information, please contact: Tanja
Pyh aj arvi (tanja.pyhajarvi@oulu.)
Tanja Pyh aj arvi, Senior Research Fellow Uni-
versity of Oulu, Department of Biology email:
tanja.pyhajarvi@oulu.
Tanja Pyh aj arvi <tanja.pyhajarvi@oulu. >
UWashington
SummerInstStatGenetics Jul8-26
NewModules
Some of the modules in the Summer Institute in Statis-
tical Genetics are now full. Other modules are lling.
There have been changes to the forensic genetics oer-
ing: Module 21 has moved to July 22-24, and a new
Module 23 has been added during July 24-26. The
new module provides training in STRmix, a software
package with a continuous treatment of DNA prole
evidence.
Details at http://sisg.biostat.washington.edu -
Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject96 EvolDir July 1, 2013
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.