E v o l D i r
April 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Conferences
Auburn AL SEEC Mar25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Beijing MicrobialSystematics May19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Belfast SystematicsAssociation Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Berkeley HumanGenomeVariation Sep8-10 . . . . . . . . . . 4
BucknellU Evolution Jun13-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
HarvardU InvertMorphEvolution Jun20-23 . . . . . . . . . 5
Honolulu EvolutionPaciﬁcIslands May26-30 . . . . . . . . . 5
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30 UndergradTravelAwards 5
London PopulationGenetics Apr19-20 Registration . . 6
London SexualSelection Dec1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
London SystemsBiology Apr18-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
MichiganStateU TranscriptionEvolutionSystems Jul22-
24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Minneapolis MarineComparative Phylogeography Jul6-
11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montpellier HumanBehaviourEvolution Jun29-Jul3 . 9
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21 MSITravelAward . . 9
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22 DeadlineExtension . . . . . 10Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22 Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Norman OK Evolution2011 Jun17-21 RegistrationOpen
11
NottingU ParasiteEvolution Apr12-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ottawa EvoDevo May16-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Ottawa SSE CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Paris ECM2011 Jul19-23 ChromosomeEvolution . . . 13
Paris ECM2011 Jul19-23 UngulatePopGen . . . . . . . . 13
Paris SexChromosomes Jun9-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Paris Speciation Jul19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Roscoﬀ France Coevolution Sep3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25 RegistrationClosed 14
UGroningen MathModelsEcolEvol Aug17-19 . . . . . . . 15
UMunich MetazoanPhylogeny Oct11-14 . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UWashington PopGenetForensics Jul19-21 . . . . . . . . . 16
York GeometricMorphometrics Oct10-13 . . . . . . . . . . 16
Auburn AL SEEC Mar25-27
**Please Distribute Widely**
LAST CALL FOR ABSTRACTS - DUE FRIDAY
MARCH 11, 2011
SEEC 2011 SOUTHEASTERN ECOLOGY &
EVOLUTION CONFERENCE Auburn University
AUBURN, ALABAMA, USA 25-27 MARCH 2011
We invite all undergraduate, graduate, and post-
doctoral researchers in ecology, evolution, environmen-
tal sciences, limnology, forestry, ﬁsheries, marine sci-
ences, and other related ﬁelds to submit abstracts
for either oral or poster presentations at the 8th An-
nual Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference
(SEEC) to be held March 25-27, 2011, at the Auburn
University in Auburn, Alabama. Each year SEEC is
hosted by a diﬀerent southeastern university and is or-
ganized by and geared toward students. SEEC is a pro-
fessional meeting intended for early-career researchersin ecology, evolution, and related ﬁelds to present their
research to their colleagues in a comfortable, fun, and
relaxed atmosphere. Typically 200-300 students give
or attend formal presentations and ﬁnd SEEC to be a
valuable forum for sharing research and connecting with
other young researchers in the region. This event is de-
signed to encourage new friendships within our ﬁeld and
to share newly develo ped research ideas for feedback.
While we expect most SEEC participants to be from
the Southeast, we encourage and welcome all interested
individuals to submit abstracts and/or attend.
SEEC 2011 homepage: http://gump.auburn.edu/-
seec2011/ Registration: http://fs22.formsite.com/-
SEEC2011/form1/index.html The registration fee is
$35.00 up to the day of the conference. Awards for both
the best oral and poster presentations will be given.
There will also be tables from sponsors, including pub-
lishers, supply companies, and other organizations (see
our web site for a complete list of sponsors). The ab-
stract submission deadline is March 11, 2011, and may
be completed at the following web site:
We are pleased to announce that Sunday’s keynote
speaker is Dr. Alan Wilson, who organized the ﬁrstApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
Southeastern Ecology & Evolution Conference in 2004.
Dr. Alan Wilson received his Ph.D. in Applied Biol-
ogy from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2006.
After spending a year as a research investigator at
the Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosys-
tems Research (CILER) jointly housed at the Univer-
sity of Michigan and NOAA’s Great Lakes Environ-
mental Research Laboratory (GLERL), Alan joined
the faculty at Auburn University (AU) as a tenure-
track Assistant Professor in 2007. He is jointly ap-
pointed in the Departments of Fisheries and Allied
Aquacultures & Biological Sciences. Alan is a commu-
nity ecologist whose research interests revolve around
the ecological mechanisms mediating harmful freshwa-
ter algal blooms. He is particularly interested in un-
derstanding how within-species genetic and phenotypic
variation inﬂuences community structure and ecosys-
tem function. Alan is also initiating projects aimed
at understanding how toxic algal blooms inﬂuence hu-
man and livestock health. You can learn more about
Alan’s research at http://wilsonlab.com/ Auburn Uni-
versity is located in downtown Auburn, Alabama and
is convenient to numerous hotels, restaurants, and
bars (to see what’s happening in Auburn, check out
these sites www.oanews.com, www.thecornernews.com
and www.auburnalabama.org . Registration, abstract
submission, travel/lodging information, and contact
information may all be found at the SEEC web
site: http://gump.auburn.edu/seec2011 Please help
us spread the word about SEEC by forwarding this
message to any students, colleagues, departments,
colleges, or schools that you think might be inter-
ested in attending SEEC this year! SEEC facebook
event page: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#!/-
event.php?eid=167244466650559 We look forward to
seeing you at Auburn University for the 8th Annual
Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference this
March!
SEEC Organizing Committee 2011seec@gmail.com
kzk0002@tigermail.auburn.edu
Beijing MicrobialSystematics
May19-23
*BISMiS 2011 Beijing*
*INAUGURAL MEETING OF BERGEY’S INTER-
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MICROBIAL SYSTEM-
ATICS*We are pleased to announce the ﬁrst meeting of BIS-
MiS held in the Beijing Friendship Hotel, Beijing from
May 19 ^th – 23 ^rd , 2011. The purpose of BISMiS is
to promote the importance of teaching and research in
microbial systematics and to foster communication be-
tween microbial systematists across the world. These
objectives include the pressing need to promote an un-
derstanding of the vast, largely unstudied, microbial
diversity which has untapped genetic and industrial po-
tential. Indeed, a basic aim of the society is to enhance
eﬀorts to isolate microorganisms in pure culture and to
describe, classify, name and identify them and, where
appropriate, to use them for exploitable biotechnology.
The meeting in Beijing is designed to help realise these
aims.
Around 300 participants from academia, industry and
research institutes are expected to attend to exchange
ideas, establish or further develop research networks,
promote global friendships and to explore the im-
portance of microbial systematics, not least from the
biotechnological perspective.
http://www.bismis.org/dct/page/1 *Organizing Com-
mittee*
*Chairmen:*Guoping Zhao; Li Huang and Zixin Deng
*Vice-chairmen:*H-J Busse; Paul de Vos; Xiuzhu Dong;
Chengxiang Fang; M Goodfellow; Ruibo Jiang; P
K¨ ampfer; Yuezhong Li; Bozhong Mu; KH Schleifer; JT
Staley; WB Whitman; Ruifu Yang; Hua Zhang; Liping
Zhang.
*Secretary-in-General:*Lixin Zhang.
*International Committee members: *Francisco (Paco)
Barona-Gomez; H-J Busse; Paul de Vos; M Goodfel-
low; P K¨ ampfer; H-P Klenk; KH Schleifer; JT Staley;
Ajit Varma; Arinthip Thamchaipenet; WB Whitman;
Hiroshi Tomoda; Tsetseg Baljinova; Radhey Gupta.
Beile Gao <beile.gao@yale.edu >
Belfast SystematicsAssociation
Jul4-8
8TH SYSTEMATICS ASSOCIATION BIENNIAL
QUEEN’S UNIVERSITY BELFAST 4-8 JULY 2011
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that registration is open
for the 8th biennial conference of the Systematics As-4 EvolDir April 1, 2011
sociation, held for the ﬁrst time in Northern Ireland!
There is an exciting programme that includes both ple-
naries and thematic symposia, as well as a large number
of contributed sessions. Currently scheduled symposia
include:
- Next Generation Systematics - Studying Evolution
and Diversity in an Era of Ubiquitous Genomics -
Arthropod Systematics: are Morphology, Palaeontol-
ogy and Molecules Coming Together? - Algal System-
atics: Where Next? - Advances in Using Museum Spec-
imens and Ancient DNA in Systematics Research
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited
speakers and other contributions. The Biennial also
presents excellent opportunities for contributed papers
on any aspect of systematics and is a great forum for
students and young researchers to present their work.
For further details, please see http://www.systass.org/-
biennial2011/ . On behalf of the conference organisers,
we hope to see you there!
Juliet Brodie, President James Cotton, Programme Of-
ﬁcer Peter Olson, Treasurer Christine Maggs, Local Or-
ganiser
Sponsors: British Phycological Society, Cambridge
University Press, Genetics Society, Linnean Society,
Queen’s University Belfast
– The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is operated by
Genome Research Limited, a charity registered in Eng-
land with number 1021457 and a company registered in
England with number 2742969, whose registered oﬃce
is 215 Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk
Berkeley HumanGenomeVariation
Sep8-10
12th International Meeting On HUMAN GENOME
VARIATION AND COMPLEX GENOME ANALYSIS
(HGV2011)
Date: 8th-10th September 2011 Place: Claremont Ho-
tel Club and Spa, Berkeley, CA, USA Website: http://-
www.hgvmeeting.org/hgv2011 Abstract deadline: 31st
May 2011
* Topics to be covered include methods/strategies for
utilisation of diﬀerent types of DNA variation (e.g.,
SNPs and copy number variations-CNVs), functionalgenomics applications, population genetics, bioinfor-
matics, databases, algorithm development, personal
genome sequencing, The 1000 Genomes Project, and
the study of human disease.
* Postdoctoral fellows, junior faculty member, and
under-represented groups can apply for meeting grants
to help minimise their attendance costs.
ajb97b@leicester.ac.uk
BucknellU Evolution Jun13-14
Preparations continue for an international conference
to be held at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Penn-
sylvania, USA on Monday, June 13 and Tuesday June
14, 2011, “Evolutionary Ecology across Trophic Levels
- A Symposium in Honor of Warren Abrahamson.”
The website has been recently updated: http://-
www.bucknell.edu/abrahamsonsymposium.xml It now
oﬀers additional information on the symposium sched-
ule, including speakers and tentative titles. A registra-
tion website is being built and should be available by
April 1.
The conference will feature over 20 scientiﬁc talks to
be given by alumni, collaborators, and friends of the
Abrahamson Lab. Topics will address the diversity of
subjects and approaches taken by Abe over his career,
from the ecology and evolution of plant-insect interac-
tions, to community and ecosystem approaches to ﬁre
ecology, restoration, and conservation of natural land-
scapes. Please visit the symposium website for a com-
plete list of speakers.
A contributed poster session is also planned. Activi-
ties will include a banquet, picnic, and talent show, as
well as regional natural history excursions. Events will
be held in the Elaine Langone Center on the Bucknell
Campus.
Anticipated costs include registration fees of $35 for
students and $75 for all others. These fees will include
meals and snacks but not lodging. Additional tickets to
the picnic and banquet will be available at cost. Regis-
tration is not currently active, but will be available in
February at the conference website.
Lodging in Bucknell dormitories will be available for
$38/night single and $30/night double occupancy, with
a one-time key charge of $10. There are many high-
quality hotels, inns, and B&Bs in the region as well.April 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
The Bucknell University campus provides easy access
to the downtown shopping, dining, and entertainment
district of Lewisburg, a town noted for its historical
preservation and vibrant culture. Details can be found
at:http://www.lewisburgpa.com/ This conference will
celebrate Warren Abrahamson’s 38 years of service to
Bucknell University and the scientiﬁc community in an-
ticipation of his upcoming retirement in the summer of
2012. During his career, Abe has supervised approxi-
mately 200 undergraduate research students, 18 Mas-
ter’s recipients, and 21 postdoctoral fellows, many of
whom have remained active in science. In 2009 he was
named a AAAS fellow. His main research interests in-
clude 1) multitrophic plant-insect interactions using the
goldenrod system and 2) ﬁre ecology and plant demog-
raphy in Florida’s upland communities.
Please visit the conference webpage for more in-
formation and updates: http://bucknell.edu/-
x65430.xml For more information on Warren
Abrhamson and his work, please visit his lab web-
site: http://www.facstaﬀ.bucknell.edu/abrahmsn/
Questions and comments can be addressed to
steve.jordan@bucknell.edu
Steve Jordan, Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology Bucknell University Lewisburg, PA 17837 Of-
ﬁce: 302 Bio. Bldg. +1 570-577-1254 Lab:
331 Bio. Bldg. +1 570-577-3816 Fax: +1 570-
577-3537 http://www.facstaﬀ.bucknell.edu/sdjordan/-
jordan.html steve.jordan@bucknell.edu
HarvardU InvertMorphEvolution
Jun20-23
Please post:
2nd International Congress on Invertebrate Morphol-
ogy - http://icim.harvard.edu/ >From June 20th to
June 23rd 2011 Host: Museum of Comparative Zool-
ogy, Harvard University Cambridge, MA, USA
Plenary keynote speakers:
Claus Nielsen
Sally Leys
Marie-Ann Felix
Mark Q. Martindale
Reinhardt Kristensen
Symposium: Neurophylogeny Invertebrates as para-sites Arthropod evolution controversies Sponges Meio-
fauna Standards in Zoomorphology 3D non invasive
imaging Comparative Development
Registrations are already open ( http://-
icim.harvard.edu/registration-now-open ). For more
info, please contact icim@fas.harvard.edu
Sorry for any cross posting. Best, Sonia
S´ onia Andrade Postdoctoral Fellow Giribet Lab De-
partment of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology -
MCZ Labs Harvard University 26 Oxford Street Cam-
bridge, MA 02138 Phone: 1 617 496-5308 Fax: 1 617
496-5854 e-mail: sandrade@fas.harvard.edu
soniacsandrade@hotmail.com
Honolulu EvolutionPaciﬁcIslands
May26-30
Evolution of Life on Paciﬁc Islands and Reefs: Past,
Present, and Future <http://botany.si.edu/events/-
2011 paciﬁc/ >, Honolulu, Hawaii, 26-30 May 2011
For additional information please direct the posting
to the following website http://botany.si.edu/events/-
2011 paciﬁc/index.htm . Many thanks -
Nancy Khan, Conference Coordinator Smithsonian In-
stitution, National Museum of Natural History P.O.
Box 37012 Washington, DC 20013-7012 202-633-0965
(Phone) 202-786-2563 (Fax)
“Khan, Nancy” <khanna@si.edu >
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30
UndergradTravelAwards
SOCIETY FOR MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION (SMBE) 2011 ANNUAL MEETING
(July 26-30, 2011, Kyoto, Japan) UNDERGRADUATE
TRAVEL AWARDS
CONFERENCE WEBSITES:
http://smbe2011.lab.nig.ac.jp/ http://smbe2011.com
DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS:
April 25, 2011
PROGRAM OUTLINE:6 EvolDir April 1, 2011
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for un-
dergraduate students to participate in a Mentoring and
Diversity Program at its annual meeting.
The goals of this program are: (1) to provide students
with the opportunity to experience the excitement of
attending and presenting at an international scientiﬁc
conference, (2) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution as well as a possible career in this
ﬁeld, and (3) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting.
To achieve these goals, each recipient of an SMBE Un-
dergraduate Mentoring and Diversity Program Award
will be paired with one or two mentors. Mentors will
serve as contact points for the students, attend some
sessions with the students, and, more generally, explain
the “goings-on” at a multi-day scientiﬁc conference in
order to minimize the anxiety often felt by ﬁrst-time
conference attendees. The mentors will also facilitate
connections to graduate students, postdoctoral fellows
and faculty members.
ELIGIBILITY:
Candidates must currently be enrolled as undergradu-
ate students (or a bachelor’s level degree equivalent) or
have graduated within the last 6 months at the time of
application. Some awards will be reserved for under-
graduates from traditionally underrepresented groups
in our scientiﬁc discipline.
CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION:
Recipients of the SMBE Undergraduate Mentoring and
Diversity Award will be invited to present their re-
search at a special reception/poster session attended
by their mentors, academic supervisors and other in-
terested conference participants.
AWARDS:
Ten awards will be given. Award recipients residing
outside of Japan will receive US $2,500 to be used to
help cover meeting registration, airfare, and room-and-
board expenses. Students residing in Japan will receive
US $1,500. Each participant will also receive an online
student subscription to the journal Molecular Biology
and Evolution for the year of 2012.
APPLICATION:
Please submit a single PDF ﬁle containing the follow-
ing: Full Name Institutional Aﬃliation Major and Year
in School (or Major and Graduation Date) Gender (op-
tional) Race/Ethnicity(optional) Postal Address Coun-
try E-mail Address Telephone Number (including coun-
try code) Academic Supervisor’s Name Institutional Af-
ﬁliation of Academic Supervisor Postal Address of Aca-demic Supervisor E-mail Address of Academic Supervi-
sor CV (limited to one page) Plans for the Future (lim-
ited to 25 words) Poster Title Poster Authors Poster
Abstract (no longer than 250 words)
Please name your PDF ﬁle as follows:
SMBE11 yourfamilyname.pdf
The single PDF ﬁle should be e-mailed to Dr. Dan
Graur (dgraur[at]uh.edu).
DEADLINE:
The deadline for receipt of nominations/applications is
April 25, 2011.
dgraur@gmail.com
London PopulationGenetics
Apr19-20 Registration
Dear EvolDir,
Registration for the 55th Ecological Genetics Group
(EGG) meeting is now extended until March 15th for
the few remaining places (max. 70 delegates). EGG
is the longest running population and evolutionary ge-
netic meeting in the United Kingdom, providing a fo-
rum for plant, insect and animal scientists alike to meet
and discuss their work. The meeting is especially wel-
coming for all early career scientists (Post-docs and Ph.
D students), being informal and modestly priced.
This year’s meeting takes place in London, April
19th-20st, at Queen Marys University of London (Dr.
Richard Buggs) with the middle day at the Natural
History Museum (Dr. Stephen Ansell). Our plenary
speakers are gene ﬂow and genomics expert Prof. Roger
Butlin (University of Sheﬃeld) and hybridisation and
species adaptation expert Prof. Alex Widmer (Insti-
tute of Integrative Biology, Zurich). Comfortable and
relaxing accommodation is provided at the Royal Foun-
dation of St Katherine Conference Centre, and the cen-
tral London location allows for easy access via major
airports and rail stations.
Full details are provided on
http://www.ecologicalgeneticsgroup.org.uk/eco/
Stephen Ansell & Richard Buggs
Dr Stephen Ansell |Dept. Botany |Natural History
Museum |Cromwell Road |London |SW7 5BD |United
Kingdom.April 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
Stephen Ansell <S.Ansell@nhm.ac.uk >
London SexualSelection Dec1-2
CONFERENCE ON SEXUAL SELECTION AND
MATE CHOICE
“Why do animals mate with the ”wrong partner“?
Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour Win-
ter Meeting, 1st & 2nd December 2011, The Zoological
Society, London.
Organisers David Shuker and Nathan Bailey, University
of St Andrews.
Plenary Speakers Professor Marlene Zuk (University of
California Riverside) and Dr Karen Pfennig (University
of North Carolina).
Our understanding of sexual selection and the evolu-
tion of animal mating systems is based on the idea of
competition for mates, in terms of both the quantity
and quality of those mates. It has become clear though
that animals often attempt to mate with partners that
appear to be of ”low quality“. Such partners range
from apparently low ﬁtness individuals of the opposite
sex but of the same species, through to members of the
same sex or even members of a diﬀerent species, from
which no ﬁtness beneﬁts should accrue.
In this two-day meeting we will explore the evolutionary
causes and consequences of seemingly ”sub-optimal“
mate choice behaviour. There are two questions we
hope will be addressed. First, are behaviours such as
reproductive interference between species or same-sex
matings within species biologically relevant or merely
quirky pathologies that oﬀer little insight? Second, to
what extent do mate choices in one context (getting the
”right“ species or sex, or the ”sexiest“ partner) inform
us about mate choice in other contexts?
We hope to stimulate both empiricists and theoreticians
to think again about what we expect from mate choice,
how discriminating animals should be, what we think
mate ”quality“ actually is, and to consider whether
unusual mate choices may help or hinder our view of
mating systems and sexual selection. We are particu-
larly keen to bring together biologists studying similar
phenomena under slightly diﬀerent paradigms (e.g. in
terms of inter-speciﬁc interactions, evolutionary biolo-
gists studying hybridisation and reproductive character
displacement, and ecologists studying reproductive in-terference). Although mate choice is our focus, we ex-
pect the discussion to be wide-ranging and relevant to
those interested in animal decision-making, especially
context-dependent choice, and individual variation in
behaviour more generally.
We request oﬀers for spoken (20 + 5 minutes) talks
and poster presentations addressing the topics of the
meeting. Please email an abstract to Dave Shuker at:
david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
We expect to ﬁnalise the programme of talks late
summer-early autumn.
We are also delighted that Professor Gene Robinson
(University of Illinois) will be giving the 2011 Tinber-
gen Lecture during the meeting as well.
As is traditional, the ASAB Winter Meeting has no
fee and does not require registration, although expres-
sions of interest to the organisers would be welcome.
Delegates make their own arrangements for travel, ac-
commodation and main meals. Delegates are also able
to access London Zoo. For further details and updates
about the programme of the conference, please visit our
website:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/shuker/ASAB-
Winter-Meeting-2011.html Alternatively please
visit the ASAB website:
http://asab.nottingham.ac.uk/meetings/index.php –
Dr David M Shuker NERC Advanced Research Fel-
low School of Biology University of St Andrews Harold
Mitchell Building St Andrews Fife KY16 9TH UK
Email: david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
LAB WEBSITE: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
shuker Tel: +44 1334 463 376 Fax: +44 1334 463
366
david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
London SystemsBiology Apr18-19
Predictive ecology: systems approaches Loading...
* Starts: 9.00am on 18 April 2011 * Finishes: 5.00pm
on 19 April 2011 * Venue: The Royal Society, London
Organised by Professor Matthew Evans, Professor Tim
Benton and Professor Ken Norris
http://royalsociety.org/events/predictive-ecology/
Registration for this event is now open - http:/-8 EvolDir April 1, 2011
/www2.royalsociety.org/events/forms/1104.htm
Prediction is needed in ecology, not least because
the world is changing and there is a demand for
robust predictions about the ecological impact of these
changes. Prediction is best when underpinned by
process-based models, but complex ecological systems
are problematic to model. We will explore diﬀerent
modelling approaches for ecological systems and the
strengths and limitations of systems approaches.
Speakers and chairs Speakers and chairs include Dr
Colin Beale, Professor Tim Benton, Professor Jim
Clark, Professor Matthew Evans, Professor Charles
Godfray FRS, Professor Volker Grimm, Professor Peter
Hudson, Professor Hanna Kokko, Professor Georgina
Mace CBE FRS, Professor EJ Milner-Gulland, Profes-
sor Paul Moorcroft, Professor Ken Norris, Dr Steven
Orzack, Dr Steve Penﬁeld, Professor David Rand, Pro-
fessor Mark Rounsevell, Professor Pete Smith, Profes-
sor Bill Sutherland and Dr Allan Tucker.
Registration This discussion meeting is intended for re-
searchers in relevant ﬁelds and is free to attend, but
pre-registration online is essential.
An optional lunch is oﬀered each day for £20+VAT per
day, and should be booked at registration. Payment is
accepted online by Visa, MasterCard, Visa Debit, Mae-
stro, Electron and Solo cards. – Steven Orzack
The Fresh Pond Research Institute 173 Harvey Street
Cambridge, MA. 02140 617 864-4307
www.freshpond.org orzack <orzack@freshpond.org >
MichiganStateU
TranscriptionEvolutionSystems
Jul22-24
Michigan State University is pleased to announce
the ˆ aSummer Symposium on Transcriptional Dynam-
ics, Evolution, and Systems Biologyˆ a, which will be
held July 22-24, 2011 in East Lansing, MI. http://-
www.bmb.msu.edu/GEDD/symposium11/index.html
Recognizing the increasingly important connections be-
tween transcriptional research at the molecular and ge-
nomic scale, this meeting will bring together leading
scientists whose focus on gene regulation includes mech-
anism, systems analysis, and evolution/development. ˆA
Conﬁrmed speakers include:
Evolution/Development:Julien Ayroles, Harvard University
John Doebley, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Ilya Ruvinsky, Univresity of Chicago
Eran Segal, Weizmann Institute of Science
Itay Tirosh, Weizmann Institute of Science (S & E)
Gunter Wagner, Yale University
Systems Analysis:
Jeﬀrey Chuang, Boston College
Daniel Gilchrist, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences
Nevan Krogan, University of California, San Francisco
John Reinitz, University of Chicago
Francois Robert, Institut de recherches cliniques de
Montr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtal (IRCM)
Ali Shilatifard, Stowerˆ as Institute for Medical Research
Kevin White, University of Chicago
Transcriptional Mechanisms:
Irina Artsimovitch, The Ohio State University
Benoit Coulombe, Institut de recherches cliniques de
Montr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtal (IRCM)
Dorothy Erie, University of North Carolina
Mikhail Kashlev, National Cancer Institute
Dmitry Vassylyev, University of Alabama, Birmingham
Robert Weinzierl, Imperial College London
Additional speakers will be selected from the poster
abstracts that are submitted. ˆA More detailed informa-
tion will be available on the conference website http://-
www.bmb.msu.edu/GEDD/symposium11/index.html
– Ian Dworkin Assistant Professor Department of Zo-
ology Program in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology &
Behaviour Program in Genetics Michigan State Uni-
versity oﬃce (517) 432-6733 lab (517) 432-6730 id-
workin@msu.edu https://www.msu.edu/ ˜ idworkin/
Ian Dworkin <idworkin@msu.edu >
Minneapolis MarineComparative
Phylogeography Jul6-11
Symposium (at 2011 Joint Meeting of Ichthyologists
and Herpetologists, July 6-11, Minneapolis)April 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
Comparative Phylogeography of the Gulf-Atlantic
Coastal Plain
Freshwater bound organisms are ideal models for phy-
logeographic research as population dynamics and ge-
netic structure are expected to closely follow the bound-
aries between freshwater habitat networks (watershed
divides). With the advent and continued reﬁnement
of high-throughput genotyping technology, the ﬁeld of
phylogeography is increasingly able to test explicit his-
torical hypotheses. This transition of research focus
from geographical pattern to spatiotemporal process is
partly responsible for the recent trend toward investi-
gation of upland species, as their “island-like” habitats
are more amenable to development and testing of bio-
geographic hypotheses. As a result, the majority of
recent work has focused upon groups such as darters
(Percidae), small salamanders (Plethodontidae), and
other organisms that inhabit uplifted provinces. Phy-
logeographic structure of species inhabiting the Gulf-
Altantic Coastal Plain remains underappreciated, hav-
ing been overshadowed since the foundational work of
the 1980’s. However, recent eﬀorts across numerous
institutions show renewed interest in applying mod-
ern phylogeographic approaches to understanding this
fauna. In addition, an immediate need exists for a
renewed interest in phylogeographic structure of low-
land species, as many ecosystems within the region are
disproportionately aﬀected by anthropogenic impacts
(e.g. longleaf pine ecosystems, karst springfed streams,
blackwater wetlands). A better understanding of his-
torical gene ﬂow, evolutionarily signiﬁcant units, and
cryptic speciation will contribute to an overall conser-
vation strategy for species that have declined in concert
with regional habitat loss.
Abstract submission: March 5, 2011. Please contact
Michael Sandel (michael.sandel*at*ua.edu) or Andres
Lopez (jalopez2*at*alaska.edu) for more information.
andresl.ﬁsh@gmail.com
Montpellier
HumanBehaviourEvolution
Jun29-Jul3
Human Behaviour & Evolution Society (HBES), 2011.
June, 29th V July, 3rd 2011. Montpellier, France.
The HBES annual conference provides a forum for cur-
rent research on the evolution of human nature. Itis a genuinely interdisciplinary research meeting, in-
cluding all of the main branches of human behaviour,
from evolutionary psychology to evolutionary anthro-
pology and cultural evolution, and including studies of
animal behaviour. The conference Keynote Address
will be presented by Randy Nesse, the co-founder of
darwinian medicine. Our Plenary Speakers include
economist Samuel Bowles, anthropologist and prima-
tologist Sarah Hrdy; linguist Jean-Marie Hombert, bi-
ologist Tim Clutton-Brock, anthropologist Frank Mar-
lowe, developmental psychologist Andrew Whiten. Ab-
stract submission and registration are still open.
http://www.hbes2011.univ-montp2.fr Program com-
mittee: - Virpi Lummaa - Ruth Mace - Martin Daly
- Mark Flinn
Best, Charlotte Faurie & Michel Raymond
HBES 2011 local organizers
PS. Deadline for abstract and symposium submission:
May 1st 2011. Deadline for early bird registration:
April 30th 2011 Deadline for low cost accommodation:
April 1st 2011
Michel Raymond <michel.raymond@univ-montp2.fr >
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21
MSITravelAward
Evolution 2011 MSI Faculty Travel Award - Applica-
tion Deadline (March 31st) Reminder Are you a biolo-
gist at a minority-serving institution? Apply now for a
travel award to attend Evolution 2011 in Norman, OK.
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent), with support from the Society for the Study of
Evolution (SSE), is pleased to announce a travel award
for faculty from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs)
to attend Evolution 2011 V the annual meeting of SSE,
SSB (Society of Systematic Biologists) and ASN (Amer-
ican Society of Naturalists) V to be held in Norman,
OK from June 17-21, 2011.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signiﬁcant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply. Funds are available to cover conference registra-
tion, travel, food and lodging for up to three individu-
als.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with an
opportunity to present original research in evolution,10 EvolDir April 1, 2011
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the SSE/SSB/ASN meetings. As
such, your application must include a talk/poster title.
(Abstracts are not required to apply.) In addition, you
will be asked to provide a brief (1 page) statement de-
scribing how this award will contribute to your profes-
sional/scientiﬁc development, as well as provide beneﬁt
to your students and institution.
To apply, please visit www.nescent.org/eog/-
2011facultytravelawardapplication Application
Deadline: March 31st, 2011 (Awards will be an-
nounced by April 8th, 2011)
For more information, please contact Dr. Jory Wein-
traub (jory@nescent.org)
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Educa-
tion and Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center (NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200
Box 104403 Durham, NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578
Fax: 919.668.9198 Email: jory@nescent.org Skype:
jory.weintraub Web: www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22
DeadlineExtension
The deadline for submitting abstracts for full talks to
the inaugural conference on Informatics for Phyloge-
netics, Evolution, and Biodiversity (iEvoBio) has been
extended by one week to Friday, March 25, 2011. We
hope that this will give those interested in contributing
suﬃcient time to do so.
Please see http://bit.ly/iEvoBio2011 CfA for the full
Call for Abstracts and author instructions. We still ex-
pect to be able to notify accepted talks in time for the
early registration deadline of iEvoBio (and Evolution).
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the confer-
ence’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/ iEvoBio,
and there is a Google group you can join at http:/-
/groups.google.com/group/ievobio-announce to receive
announcements.
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with the
Society for the Study of Ecolution (SSE) and the Soci-ety of Systematic Biologists (SSB). Additional support
has been provided by the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
hlapp@nescent.org
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22
Reminder
This is a reminder that the deadline for submitting ab-
stracts for full talks to the 2011 conference on Infor-
matics for Phylogenetics, Evolution, and Biodiversity
(iEvoBio) is Friday, March 25, 2011, which is just two
days away. Please see http://bit.ly/iEvoBio2011 CfA
for the full Call for Abstracts and author instructions.
As another reminder, full talks are only 1 of 5 kinds
of contributed content that iEvoBio will feature. The
other 4 are: 1) Lightning talks (5 mins long), 2)
Challenge entries, 3) Software bazaar demonstrations,
and 4) Birds-of-a-Feather gatherings. The Call for
Challenge entries is also open (see http://ievobio.org/-
challenge.html). Tentative submission deadlines are
listed on the conference website ( http://ievobio.org/-
program.html#dates ).
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the con-
ference’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/ iEvo-
Bio, and there is an announcement-only Google group
athttp://groups.google.com/group/ievobio-announce .
You can use the group’s RSS feed (linked from its URL),
or join the group to receive announcements by email.
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with the
Society for the Study of Ecolution (SSE) and the Soci-
ety of Systematic Biologists (SSB). Additional support
has been provided by the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)April 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
hlapp@nescent.org
Norman OK Evolution2011
Jun17-21 RegistrationOpen
REGISTRATION TO EVOLUTION 2011 IS OPEN!
The Evolution 2011 meeting will be held from the 17-21
June in Norman, Oklahoma. Registration and meeting
details can be found at: www.evolution2011.ou.edu <
http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu >.
Note: “Early-bird” registration deadline is 17 April.
The deadline for submission of talks/posters is 1 May.
Looking forward to welcoming everyone to Norman in
June!
Larry Weider, Rich Broughton, Ingo Schlupp
Tri-chairs, Evolution 2011 Organizing Committee
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >
NottingU ParasiteEvolution
Apr12-14
LAST CALL FOR REGISTRATIONS FOR THE
SPRING MEETING OF THE BRITISH SOCIETY
FOR PARASITOLOGY (12th ˆ a 14th April 2011, NOT-
TING UNIVERSITY, UK) Calling All Parasite Ecolo-
gists and Evolutionary Biologists
Following the great success of the Ecology / Evolution-
ary theme at last yearˆ as British Society for Parasitol-
ogy Spring Meeting at Cardiﬀ University, the organ-
ising committee would like to invite you to join them
again at Nottingham for this yearˆ as meeting which will
again include a full series of sessions entirely devoted
to ecological and evolutionary parasitology.
Session Topics:
Wild vertebrates as natural models in immunology
Convened by Dr Joseph Jackson (Aberystwyth Uni-
versity) and with invited speaker Dr Andrea Graham
(Princeton University, USA). Dr Grahamˆ as work ulti-
mately aims to understand how natural selection has
shaped strategies for both host defence and parasite
transmission.Ecological and Evolutionary Impacts of Parasites on
Hosts Convened by Dr Andrew MacColl and with in-
vited speaker Prof Armand Kuris (UCSB, USA). Prof
Kuris is best known for his work revealing the role of
parasites in ecosystem structure and function in ma-
rine systems, and the applied consequences of this for
ﬁsheries management and biological control.
Parasites and Behaviour Convened by Dr Jo Cable
(Cardiﬀ University) and with invited speaker Prof
Janice Moore (Colarado State University, USA). Prof
Mooreˆ as research focuses on the evolution of host be-
havioural manipulation by parasites.
General Ecology. A session covering a wide range of
topics from the species concept through to parasite es-
timation methods.
Medicine Meets Ecology Convened by Prof Maria-
Gloria Basa ˜A±ez (Imperial College). This open ses-
sion will examine how ecological and evolutionary ap-
proaches are currently, or could in the future, help to
improve medical practice in dealing with parasites and
related issues.
Co-infection Dynamics Convened by Dr Jo Lello
(Cardiﬀ University). This session will cover both
parasite-parasite and pathogen-parasite combinations,
looking at how these infections impact upon the host,
the parasite dynamics and the evolution of host-
parasite relationships.
Parasite Evolution Convenor TBC and with invited
speaker Dr Andrew Fenton (Liverpool University). Dr
Fentonˆ as work focuses on the use of simple population
dynamic theory as a tool for understanding the epi-
demiology and evolution of parasites with a current fo-
cus on the evolution of macroparasite life-history strate-
gies.
Wildlife, Biodiversity and Disease Convenor Dr Sarah
Perkins (Cardiﬀ University). This session will explore
the eﬀects of wildlife and biodiversity on the emergence
and transmission of infectious diseases.
See: http://www.bsp.uk.net/events.php for further de-
tails and for registration
Dr Joanne Lello Cardiﬀ University School of Bio-
sciences Organism and Environment Group Biomedical
Sciences Building Museum Avenue Cardiﬀ CF10 3AX
Tel: 02920 875885 E-mail: lelloj@cardiﬀ.ac.uk
Joanne Lello <LelloJ@cardiﬀ.ac.uk >12 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Ottawa EvoDevo May16-20
The Comparative Morphology & Development (CMD)
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) in-
vites you to attend the following symposia at the annual
CSZ meeting:
May 16-20, 2011, in Ottawa, Ontario; Canada’s Capital
City
SYMPOSIUM: Regeneration: Developmental & Evolu-
tionary Perspectives (May 17, 2011)
Speakers:
Bruce Carlson (Michigan) “Regeneration - One of na-
ture’s enduring mysteries”
Catherine Tsilﬁdis (OHRI) “Characterizing the dedif-
ferentiation process in newt forelimb regeneration”
Alexandra Bely (Maryland) “Evolution and develop-
ment of regeneration loss in annelids”
[organized by Matthew Vickaryous, University of
Guelph]
STUDENT SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM: New perspec-
tives on adaptation to environmental variation via epi-
genetic mechanisms (May 17, 2011)
Lead speaker:
David Crews (UT Austin) “Life Imprints: Epigenetic
modiﬁcations and the development of behavior”
Additional speakers:
Sanoji Wijenayake (Carleton) “ Temperature regula-
tion of inheritable cytosine methylation patterns in
gravid female ectotherms”
Christina Castellani (Western Ontario) “ Genomic
exploration of monozygotic twins discordant for
schizophrenia uncovers de novo mutations and reveals
candidate genes”
Laia Navarro Martin (University of Ottawa) “An epi-
genetic mechanism involved in temperature-induced sex
ratio shifts in ﬁsh populations ”
[organized by Jan Edward Lim, Kristin Bianchini, and
Cayleih Robertson, University of Guelph]
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA,
SEE:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm TOREGISTER, OR TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
CSZ ANNUAL MEETING, SEE:
http://www.csz2011.uottawa.ca/ EARLY REGIS-
TRATION DEADLINE: March 7, 2011
CONTRIBUTED PAPERS: Spaces are also available
for contributed papers in sessions organized by the
CMD section. The deadline for submitting abstracts
is barely one week away, so don’t delay:
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: March 7,
2011
FINAL REGISTRATION DEADLINE: April 4, 2011 –
A. Richard Palmer, FRSC Systematics and Evolution
Group Department of Biological Sciences University
of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA
phone: (780) 492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308
FAX: (780) 492-9234 http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/-
palmer/palmer.html Secretary-General Comparative
Morphology & Development section Canadian Society
of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/-
home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
Ottawa SSE CallSymposia
*Call for SSE Sponsored Symposia at Evolution 2012*
The SSE Council encourages proposals for two soci-
ety sponsored symposia at the 2012 meeting in Ot-
tawa. In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council
will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly
emerging ﬁelds, ﬁelds ripe for syntheses, and ﬁelds
diﬀerent from those that have been included in re-
cent Society symposia. *The Council particularly en-
courages proposals that include women, younger in-
vestigators and others traditionally underrepresented
in Society symposia. *Proposals for SSE Symposia
should be submitted electronically as PDF by midnight
May 16, 2011 by email to bbrodie@virginia.edu. More
details can be found at www.evolutionsociety.org/-
calls/Call forSymposia 2012 Ottawa.pdf . Judy Stone
<jstone@colby.edu >
Paris ECM2011 Jul19-23
ChromosomeEvolutionApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
Dear colleagues,
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster con-
tributions in the symposium “Chromosomes & Evo-
lution” to be held at the European Congress of
Mammalogy (ECM 2011: http://www.alphavisa.com/-
ecm2011 ), Paris, France (July 19-23 2011).
This symposium will explore all aspects of evolution-
ary cytogenetics in mammals from systematics to phy-
logenetic approaches and comparative genomics. This
session aims at integrating patterns and processes in-
volved in chromosome change and welcomes discussions
on issues such as chromosome function, epigenetics and
selection. Deadline for submission: 1st April 2011.
Instructions for preparing and submitting your abstract
can be found on the ECM website.
Organisers: Vitaly Volobouev & Janice Britton-
Davidian Vitaly Volobouev: vitaly@mnhn.fr Jan-
ice Britton-Davidian: janice.britton-davidian@univ-
montp2.fr
Janice Britton-Davidian Laboratoire G´ en´ etique & En-
vironnement Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution -
UMR5554 Universit´ e Montpellier II Pl. E. Bataillon,
cc65 34095 Montpellier Cedex T´ el.: 33 (0)4.67.14.39.10
Fax: 33 (0)4.67.14.36.22
janice.britton-davidian@univ-montp2.fr
Paris ECM2011 Jul19-23
UngulatePopGen
I would like to invite submissions of abstracts for
oral and poster presentations for the symposium ’Con-
servation and population genetics/genomics of un-
gulates’ to be held at the European Congress of
Mammalogy (ECM 2011: http://www.alphavisa.com/-
ecm2011 ), Paris, France (July 19-23 2011).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Within Europe as a whole, there are some 20 species
of ungulates, the majority of which are widespread and
abundant but have been subjected to anthropogenic in-
terference for centuries. Populations are managed ac-
cording to rigorous hunting schedules and kept long-
term in enclosures. The reduction in the interconnec-
tivity of ungulate populations as a result of habitat
fragmentation has led to concerns about the loss of ge-
netic variability due to isolation. Hybridisation with
illegally released con-speciﬁcs, domestic forms or alienspecies is considered a threat to species integrity. Fi-
nally, some distinctive (sub-)species’ are very rare and
require explicit management eﬀorts for their conserva-
tion. We aim to show how molecular techniques can
be used to investigate the evolutionary consequences of
human interference on ungulate populations and how
genetics can contribute to the development of eﬀective,
science-based management and conservation policies.
Invited speaker: Massimo Scandura (University of Sas-
sari)
Deadline for submission: 1st April 2011.
Instructions for preparing and submitting your abstract
can be found on the ECM website.
Organiser: Alain Frantz Zoologisches Institut Univer-
sity of Greifswald J.-S. Bach Strasse 11-12 D-17489
Greifswald Germany Tel: +49 (0) 3834 86 4068 Fax:
+49 (0) 3834 86 4252
Alain Frantz <frantza@uni-greifswald.de >
Paris SexChromosomes Jun9-10
Dear Colleagues,
we are pleased to announce that registration is now
open for the meeting of the SFG on 9-10 June
2011 in Paris: Genetics, Epigenetics and Evolution
of Sex Chromosomes. http://www.sfgenetique.org/-
meeting2011 If you need assistance, please contact the
sfg: contact@sfgenetique.org
The organising committee /
Catherine Montchamp-Moreau
<Catherine.Montchamp@legs.cnrs-gif.fr >
Paris Speciation Jul19-23
Dear colleagues,
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster con-
tributions in the symposium “Mechanisms of Speciation
in Mammals” to be held at the European Congress of
Mammalogy (ECM 2011: http://www.alphavisa.com/-
ecm2011 ), Paris, France (July 19-23 2011).14 EvolDir April 1, 2011
This symposium will address the mechanisms of spe-
ciation in mammals, with the intention to providing
an overview of theoretical background, recent advances
and new challenges in this ﬁeld of research. It will bring
together researchers working in diﬀerent disciplines and
developing various approaches from genomics to be-
haviour, to explore the mechanisms favouring the evolu-
tion of reproductive barriers. Particular attention will
be given to recent advances in understanding speciation
in the context of ongoing gene ﬂow and to studies pro-
viding new insights into the factors favouring adaptive
speciation in mammals.
Deadline for submission: 1st April 2011. Instructions
for preparing and submitting your abstract can be
found on the ECM website.
Organisers: Guila GANEM & Carole SMADJA
guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr and carole.smadja@univ-
montp2.fr
– Dr. Carole Smadja CNRS Institut des Sciences de
l1Evolution Montpellier – Web: http://www.carole-
smadja.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/ carole.smadja@univ-
montp2.fr
Roscoﬀ France Coevolution Sep3-7
Jacques Monod Conference “Coevolutionary arms race
between parasite virulence and host immune defense:
Challenges from state of the art research” 3-7 Septem-
ber 2011 Roscoﬀ (France)
A Jacques Monod Conference entitled “Coevolutionary
arms race between parasite virulence and host immune
defense: Challenges from state of the art research” will
be held at the Marine Station CNRS at Roscoﬀ (France)
from 3rd to 7th September 2011.
The conference is organized by Gabriele Sorci (Dijon,
France) and Manfred Milinski (Ploen, Germany).
Key-note speakers include: Shelley Adamo (Halifax,
CA), Sonia Altizer (Athens, USA), Thierry Boulinier
(Montpellier, France), Nathalie Charbonnel (Montpel-
lier, France), Christine Coustaud (Sophia Antipolis,
France), Rob de Boer (Utrech, The Netherlands), Di-
eter Ebert (Basel, Switzerland), Scott Edwards (Har-
vard, USA), Sylvain Gandon (Montpellier, France),
Michael Hochberg (Montpellier, France), Jim Kaufman
(Cambridge, UK), Kirk Klasing (Davis, USA), Jochim
Kurtz (Munster, Germany), Margaret Mackinnon (Kil-
iﬁ, Kenya), Polly Matzinger (Bethesda, USA), Yan-nis Michalakis (Montpellier, France), Yannick Moret
(Dijon, France), Charles Nunn (Harvard, USA), Geoﬀ
Parker (Liverpool, UK), Wayne Potts (Salt Lake City,
USA), Luis Quintana-Murci (Paris, France), Heinz
Richner (Bern, Switzerland), Ana Rivero (Montpellier,
France), Paul Schmid-Hempel (Zurich, Switzerland),
Dominik Wodarz (Irvine, USA).
Deadline for application: May 5 2011
Registration fee (including board and lodging)
400 euros for PhD students
600 euros for other participants
Application for registration
The total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole
duration of the conference. Selection is made on the
basis of the aﬃnity of potential participants with the
topics of the conference. Scientists and PhD Students
interested in the meeting should send:
their curriculum vitae the list of their main publications
for the 3 last years the abstract of their presentation
to the*Chairperson of the conference*
(Gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr) before the dead-
line. After it, the chairman will select the participants.
Except in some particular cases approved by the
Chairperson, it is recommended that all selected
participants present their work during the conference,
either in poster form or by a brief in- session talk. The
organizers choose the form in which the presentations
are made. No payment will be sent with application.
Information on how and when to pay will be mailed in
due time to those selected.
For further information please visit the following web
site ( http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2011/sorci e.html )
Gabriele Sorci (Gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr) and
Manfred Milinski (milinski@mail.evolbio.mpg.de)
gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25
RegistrationClosed
XIIIth Congress of the European Society for the Study
of Evolutionary Biology
Tuebingen, Germany, 20-25 August 2011
www.eseb2011.de REGISTRATION CLOSED!April 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
I would like to point out that the 13th Congress of
the Society of Evolutionary Biology is now completely
full and registration has been closed (quite a bit earlier
than expected). We added a waiting list possibility to
the website, which allows us to allow in more people in
case others drop out. Although chances will be low to
get in, entering your name would at least give us a feel-
ing for how many more people would have registered in
case we would have had a higher threshold (current n
1300). This is important information for future orga-
nizers.
SOME MEETING STATISTICS
Abstract submission ended on 28 February as planned.
We have received 1023 submissions for posters and ab-
stracts. We have 337 slots for talk (including all plenar-
ies and invited speakers). About 500 submissions will
be presented as a “regular” poster. About 200 Posters
will be oﬀered the opportunity to put up a “essence
poster” = summary “mini-posters”. All abstracts will
be included in the abstract booklet. The refereeing pro-
cess will start this week. We hope to have feedback for
all around late April. The top 10 of contributing coun-
tries looks like this:
Germany 165 United Kingdom 121 Switzerland 102
USA 100 France 73 Finland 62 Sweden 65 Canada 38
Netherlands 30 Australia 27
The 29 regular symposia show a very explicit preference
for these three topics:
A. Symposium 21: Evolutionary ecological genomics
B. Symposium 23: Climate change and evolution C.
Symposium 01: Experimental evolution across the mi-
crobe/macrobe divide
The new category of “general” symposia (for submis-
sions outside the regular specialist symposia) received
one quarter of all submissions (264). We are looking for-
ward to seeing a very diverse collection of topics here.
All symposia will obtain a number of time slots that is
correlated with the proportion of submissions they re-
ceived, so acceptance rates for submitted talks will be
more or less similar - roughly 20-30% - independent of
the subject.
This and other information can also be found on the
home page www.eseb2011.de Very best,
Nico
Nico Michiels, Prof. Dr. Animal Evolutionary Ecology
Department of Biology Auf der Morgenstelle 28 72076
Tuebingen Germany
Tel. +49 7071 2974649 Fax +49 7071 295634 Mobile
+49 170 4758003nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de
www.eseb2011.de www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de
www.eve.uni-tuebingen.de Nico Michiels
<nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de >
UGroningen MathModelsEcolEvol
Aug17-19
The third biannual conference on Mathematical Models
in Ecology and Evolution, MMEE 2011, will take place
at the University of Groningen, the Netherlands, 17 -
19 August, 2011. Registration and call for abstracts are
now open: please check our website:
http://www.mmee2011.evobio.eu/ The deadline for
registration is May 31, 2011.
On behalf of the organising committee, Joke Bakker
ICT manager Theoretical Biology Dept, Centre for Eco-
logical and Evolutionary Studies, University of Gronin-
gen P.O. Box 11103, 9700 CC Groningen, Nether-
lands Nijenborgh 7, 9747 AG Groningen, Netherlands
Phone: +31 (0)50 363 8780 Fax: +31 (0)50 363
3400 Website: http://www.rug.nl/biol/theobio E-mail:
Joke.Bakker@rug.nl
Joke Bakker <joke.bakker@rug.nl >
UMunich MetazoanPhylogeny
Oct11-14
Dear colleagues, registration and abstract submission
for the international conference ˆ aDeep Metazoan Phy-
logeny 2011 ˆ a new data, new challenges“, to be held
from October 11-14, 2011 at the University of Munich
(Germany) is now open!
The conference will bring together mathematicians,
theoreticians, molecular systematists, and morpholo-
gists that aim at resolving deep branches in the animal
tree of life for a better understanding of the evolution
and diversiﬁcation of multicellular life on Earth.
During the conference, new data, new analytical tools
and new results will be discussed. Challenges and pit-
falls in phylogeny reconstruction based on molecular16 EvolDir April 1, 2011
and/or morphological data will be identiﬁed, aiming
for a critical and constructive view of the state of the
art of the metazoan tree of life.
The meeting will consist of sessions with several invited
leaders in the ﬁeld and open sessions with short presen-
tations. In addition, there will be ample space and time
to present posters.
The meeting focuses on three major themes: (1) Inno-
vations in the analyses of molecular and morphological
data (2) Molecular phylogeny: new markers and phy-
logenomic analyses (3) The evidence found in morphol-
ogy
Full list of conﬁrmed keynote speakers can be found at
<www.palmuc.de/dmp2011 >
The conference is organised in collaboration with the
Priority Program ”Deep Metazoan Phylogeny“ of the
German Science Foundation (DFG). This program is a
joint eﬀort of more than 20 participating workgroups
bringing together molecular, morphological and bioin-
formatic expertise with the goal to establish a (hope-
fully) robust backbone metazoan phylogeny. Details on
the priority project ”Deep Metazoan Phylogeny“ can
be found at <http://www.deep-phylogeny.org >.
More information is available on the conference website
<www.palmuc.de/dmp2011 >, which will continuously
be updated.
*Important Dates & Deadlines*: Early registration
with reduced fees until 1st of May 2011 Regular regis-
tration fees then until 1st of July 2011 Latest abstract
submission 1st of July 2011 Notiﬁcation of oral presen-
tations until 1st of August 2011
We look forward to welcoming you in Munich in Octo-
ber!
for the organizing team
Gert W¨ orheide
—- Prof. Dr. Gert W¨ orheide Molecular Geo-
& Palaeobiology Department of Earth and Envi-
ronmental Sciences & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen Richard-Wagner-
Straße 10 80333 Muenchen Germany
Phone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de |www.mol-
palaeo.de
Director, Bavarian State Collections of Palaeontol-
ogy and Geology Spokesman of the Executive Board,
GeoBio-CenterLMU
Lab publications: www.mol-palaeo-lit.de/papers.php
www.researcherid.com/rid/C-1080-2008 woer-heide@lmu.de
UWashington PopGenetForensics
Jul19-21
For the past 20 years, population and evolutionary ge-
netics have been playing a role in forensic science. Some
of the recent applications include the FBI investigation
of the 2001 Anthrax Mailings, the determination of geo-
graphic origin of seized elephant tusks, and discussions
of the way to assess the strength of matching Y-STR
proﬁles that have not previously been seen. In July of
this year, these and related topics will be discussed by
population geneticists, statisticians and forensic scien-
tists at the 8th International Conference on Forensic
Inference and Statistics. The conference will be held at
the University of Washington, July 19-21.
You are invited to attend to learn about this interest-
ing ﬁeld, or to present any work you have done in the
ﬁeld. Details are available at http://www.icﬁs2011.org
Bruce Weir bsweir@uw.edu
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >
York GeometricMorphometrics
Oct10-13
The Hull York Medical School Centre for Anatomical
and Human Sciences (CAHS) will host a four day work-
shop in York 10-13 October 2011
The course is aimed at postgraduates who already have
some insight into GMM but may not have yet used
these methods. During the four days of the course the
basics of geometric morphometrics will be covered and
key multivariate morphometric methods reviewed. Fre-
quent examples will be presented using available GMM
software and students will gain experience in using dif-
ferent software tools during the course of each after-
noon’s practical sessions using datasets we will provide.
Faculty Paul O’Higgins CAHS, Hull York Medical
School
Andrea Cardini Dipartimento di Biologia, Universit` a di
Modena e Reggio Emilia and CAHS, Hull York Medical
SchoolApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
FOR MORE INFORMATION AND TO BOOK
ON THE COURSE PLEASE VISIT http://-sites.google.com/site/hymsfme/gmm-course-2011
Paul O’Higgins <Paul.Ohiggins@hyms.ac.uk >
GradStudentPositions
Berlin AquaticInsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Denmark DNAanalysis FishCollections . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
EAWAG Switzerland AnimalMigration . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
JagiellonianUniv 8 EcolEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . 19
MaxPlanckInst 2 PlantInsect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Munster NGS Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
NaturalHistoryMuseum London Supertrees . . . . . . . . 21
QueenMaryU BatSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
SimonFraserU HPA-Stress evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
SoutheasternLouisianaU ChloroplastGenomeEvol . . 22
Tuebingen Germany 2 MarineEvolutionaryEcol . . . . 23
UBristol EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UCL Belgium Cambridge ButterﬂyPheromones . . . . 25
UDusseldorf MolEvol SexGenes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25ULausanne PopulationGenomicsDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ULethbridge AvianPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
ULondon PlantMicrobeCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UNeuchatel PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UNewSouthWales DolphinPopulationGenetics . . . . . 28
UParis6 EvolutionOfAntCastes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UPotsdam SmallMammalDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UQueensland ReefFish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UTuebingen 2 MarineEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . 31
WesternKentuckyU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 32
WestVirginiaU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Berlin AquaticInsectEvolution
PhD Student Position – Aquatic Insect Evolution and
Biodiversity
Berlin, Germany
The Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (IGB) in Berlin invites applications for a PhD
student position studying the evolution and biodiver-
sity of European mayﬂies (Insecta, Ephemeroptera).
The successful candidate will participate in a 3-year
project funded by the Leibniz society on freshwater bio-
diversity in Europe. The project includes ﬁeld sampling
in several locations in Europe, laboratory analysis of
collected organisms (morphological identiﬁcation, DNA
sequencing), and the organization of existing DNA se-
quence data for phylogenetic and comparative phylo-
geography analysis. There is suﬃcient scope within the
project to develop your own interests in population ge-
netics, phylogeography, evolution and genomics. Thestart date is negotiable but should be no later than
July 2011.
Applicants must have a degree in biology, ecology, ge-
netics, or evolution; experience with DNA sequencing
(laboratory methods or data analysis) or ﬁeld sampling
of aquatic insects; good command of written and spo-
ken English. For additional information, please contact
Dr Michael T. Monaghan (monaghan@igb-berlin.de).
Applicants should submit a CV, a cover letter highlight-
ing your experience and research interests, and the con-
tact details of two or more referees to monaghan@igb-
berlin.de by 15 April 2011.
For more information please see the following links:
Berlin – www.berlin.de/international/index.en.php
IGB – www.igb-berlin.de PhD position – www.igb-
berlin.de/doktorarbeiten-details/items/70.html Me
–www.igb-berlin.de/mitarbeitende-igb.html?show’5
monaghan@igb-berlin.de18 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Denmark DNAanalysis
FishCollections
PhD Scholarship in Genetic Analysis of Archived Tis-
sue Collections from Fish
A PhD Scholarship on genetic analysis of archived tis-
sue collections is available at the National Institute of
Aquatic Resources (DTU Aqua) with starting date Au-
gust 2011. The scholarship is ﬁnanced by DTU Aqua.
Deadline for applications is March 30th.
The project will be carried out in the Section for Pop-
ulation Ecology and Genetics in Silkeborg.
DTU Aqua is an institute at the Technical University
of Denmark. The purpose of DTU Aqua is to provide
research, advice and education at the highest interna-
tional level within the sustainable exploitation of living
marine and freshwater resources, the biology of aquatic
organisms and the development of ecosystems as well as
their integration in ecosystem-based management. The
institute has an international research staﬀ comprising
approx. 90 academic employees.
Project description Archived historical material from
ﬁsh in the form of scales and otoliths is found in
many research institutions across the Nordic countries.
Such population samples constitute a unique source of
DNA for conducting retrospective analysis of genetic
changes over time. They allow identiﬁcation of histor-
ical changes in the distribution, migration and abun-
dance of ﬁsh populations, as well as temporal evolu-
tionary changes within populations in response to en-
vironmental change. This project aims at performing
genetic/genomic analysis on historical collections of cod
and potentially other ﬁsh species from several Nordic
populations in order to estimate the temporal stabil-
ity of population structure as well as adaptive micro-
evolution in relation to climatic variation. The insights
on relationships between population structure, evolu-
tion and climate should be used in conjunction with
forecasting models of environmental change in order to
predict future distribution and abundance of ﬁsh pop-
ulations. The project is part of a Nordic Centre of Ex-
cellence and will include collaboration with and visits
to research institutions in Norway and Greenland.
Qualiﬁcations We are looking for a candidate who has:
Master of Science (M.Sc.) degree, or equivalent, in
Population- or Evolutionary Genetics Previous expe-rience with molecular genetic analysis Proﬁciency in
written and spoken English Keen interest in research
and a wish to work in the ﬁeld of population genetics
and evolution of aquatic organisms
Approval and Enrolment Scholarships for a PhD degree
are subject to academic approval, and the successful
candidate will be enrolled in one of the general degree
programmes at DTU. For information about the general
requirements for enrolment and the general planning of
the scholarship studies, please see the DTU PhD Guide.
Salary and appointment terms The salary and appoint-
ment terms are consistent with the current rules for
PhD degree students at DTU. The period of employ-
ment is 3 years.
Further information For further information about the
project, please contact Professor Einar Eg Nielsen,
een@aqua.dtu.dk, (+45) 40210231.
See the full position announcement at with fur-
ther information on the online application proce-
dure: http://www.aqua.dtu.dk/Om DTU Aqua/-
Stillinger.aspx?guid=fa652131-600a-44ca-a5c9-
3f0aee1f686c Einar Eg Nielsen <een@aqua.dtu.dk >
EAWAG Switzerland
AnimalMigration
The Department of Aquatic Ecology (Eawag, Switzer-
land) and the Department of Ecohydrology (EPFL Lau-
sanne, Switzerland) seek a PhD student in Ecology and
Ecohydrology.
Project title: Experimental and theoretical evaluations
of travelling waves of organisms spreading in diﬀerently
structured aquatic systems.
The PhD student will participate in a collaborative re-
search project with Dr. Florian Altermatt (Aquatic
Ecology, Eawag) and Prof. Dr. Andrea Rinaldo (Eco-
hydrology, EPFL) to experimentally study travelling
waves of aquatic organisms in landscapes of diﬀer-
ent structures. Understanding the spread of organ-
isms in natural landscapes is a central issue of ecol-
ogy and is currently receiving a large theoretical inter-
est. We will use microcosm-system with protozoans,
in which the propagation front can be accurately mea-
sured in the laboratory. These estimates are then used
to parametrize a broad class of models. Ultimately,
we want to get a more comprehensive understandingApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
of the spread of organisms, such as disease vectors or
invasive species, in bifurcating waterways and rivers.
For this project, ﬁnanced by Eawag, we are looking for
a highly motivated candidate with interests in ecology,
ecohydrology and river network dynamics. The project
combines laboratory microcosm-experiments with pro-
tozoans and mathematical modeling.
We oﬀer a stimulating research environment in lively
and social institutes in Du `Ibendorf (near Zu `Irich) and
in Lausanne. At both localities, the departments host
other research groups in ecology and ecohydrology. The
position will be for a period of three years, and should
start as soon as possible (June 2011 or soon thereafter).
The PhD student will be enrolled at EPFL, but the lab-
and working-environment is shared between the two lo-
calities (i.e., a large part of the PhD will be done in
Du`Ibendorf, the other part in Lausanne). The ideal
candidate has good experimental skills and/or a strong
background in quantitative modeling. Excellent com-
municational and writing skills in English, good work
ethics, and creative thinking are desired. A Diploma
or Masters degree (or equivalent) in biology, physics or
related subject is necessary for admission. The working
language in the groups is English.
Applications should include a letter of interest with a
description of pertinent experience, curriculum vitae,
a list of publications (if any), the names (with e-mail
addresses) of three potential referees, and copies of cer-
tiﬁcates of academic qualiﬁcations.
Applications must be submitted with the online-
application tool, using the following link: http://-
internet1.reﬂine.ch/673277/0028/++publications++/-
1/index.html Please submit your application by 10
April 2011.
For further information, consult www.eawag.ch http://-
www.eawag.ch/about/personen/homepages/altermﬂ/-
index EN http://www.epﬂ.ch/ http://echo.epﬂ.ch/-
page-12889.html or contact Florian Altermatt (Tel.
+41 58 765 55 92) ﬂorian.altermatt@eawag.ch
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is a Swiss-based internationally ac-
tive research institute within the ETH Domain (ETH
Zurich and EPFL). It is committed to the ecologically,
economically and socially responsible management of
water. EPFL is the Ecole Polytechnique Fe `Ide`Irale de
Lausanne. Its mission are education, research and tech-
nology transfer at the highest international level.
ﬂorian.altermatt@eawag.chJagiellonianUniv 8
EcolEvolutionaryBiology
8 PhD POSITIONS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY AT THE INSTITUTE OF EN-
VIRONMENTAL SCIENCES, JAGIELLONIAN UNI-
VERSITY, KRAKOW, POLAND
The leading Polish institute in: Behavioral ecology,
Evolutionary genetics and life histories, Physiological
and bioenergetics, Ecotoxicology and industrial pollu-
tants, Ecosystem ecology, environmental education and
management
is opening applications for
4-year interdisciplinary doctoral studies programme in
ecology in English, with net-scholarships 2200 PLN per
month, oﬀering research in Poland and half-year place-
ments in academic centres outside Poland and a choice
of 4 out of 8 courses from diﬀerent scientiﬁc disciplines
conducted by eminent Polish and foreign specialists
Topics oﬀered by for the candidates: 1. Divergence
population genetics of newts (Supervisor: Wieslaw
Babik)
2. Molecular basis of adaptation in the bank vole (Wies-
law Babik & Jacek Radwan)
3. Sexual selection and the maintenance of enzyme
polymorphisms in the bulb mite (Jacek Radwan)
4. Genetic diﬀerences between cuckoos parasiting
broods of two sympatric species of warblers from the
Acrocephalus genus (Mariusz Cichon & Andrzej Dyrcz)
5. Functions of plumage colour ornaments in blue tit
females (Mariusz Cichon)
6. Laboratory model of adaptive radiation: correlated
responses to a multidirectional artiﬁcial selection in the
bank vole (Pawel Koteja)
7. Endophytes and biofuel production (Katarzyna Tur-
nau)
8. Toxicokinetics of metals in arthropods (Ryszard
Laskowski)
9. Stoichiometry of predator ˆ a prey trophic link in se-
lected arachnids (Anna Rozen)
10. The role of fungivory in maintaining the stoichio-
metric balance of the detritus/detritivore trophic link
(January Weiner)20 EvolDir April 1, 2011
11. Eﬀect of natural and anthropogenic factors on mi-
crobial community structure and activity during litter
decomposition (Maria Niklinska & Ryszard Laskowski)
12. Eﬀective application of human dimension and pub-
lic participatory approaches to natural resource man-
agement in Poland (Malgorzata Grodzinska-Jurczak)
13. Nature conservation management/policy on
the jurisdictional, institutional and ecological scales
(Ma˚Agorzata Grodzinska-Jurczak)
Candidates are suggested to contact potential supervi-
sors prior to the application
Application deadline: 10 June 2011
Detailed information, containing the description of
research projects proposed for PhD students, pro-
ﬁle of the applicant and the application instructions
are available at: www.eko.uj.edu.pl/ecology “ecol-
ogy@uj.edu.pl” <ecology@uj.edu.pl >
MaxPlanckInst 2 PlantInsect
The department of Molecular Ecology at the Max
Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology invites applica-
tions for two PhD fellowships for the Project:
“Mobile signals in plant defense against insects”
Upon insect attack, plants activate a highly eﬀective
immune system. Interestingly, this does not only hap-
pen locally above ground, but involves the belowground
tissues as well: Roots provide toxic secondary metabo-
lites for the leaves and serve as dynamic storage organs
for future regrowth. But how exactly do the leaves
“tell” the roots about the ongoing attack?
Using an interdisciplinary approach that combines
molecular biology, phytochemistry, plant physiology
and plant-insect ecology, you will attempt to identify
leaf-to-root signals in wild tobacco and test for their
ecological relevance in the ﬁeld. The project will be
integrated into our newly established group on root-
environment interactions in tobacco, and may signiﬁ-
cantly contribute to our understanding of plant-insect
interactions.
We look for students with a completed Master de-
gree or equivalent who have a strong background in
plant molecular biology, biochemistry, systems biology
and/or ecology. Highly motivated candidates with solid
training in other areas of biology are also encouraged
to apply.We oﬀer an excellent research environment with enthu-
siastic scientists from diﬀerent nationalities in the De-
partment of Molecular Ecology (director: Prof. Ian
T. Baldwin) at the Max Planck Institute for Chemical
Ecology in Jena, Germany.
The deadline for applications is March 31, 2011. Inter-
views will start in April. The positions will be available
from May 1st, 2011.
Please send your application including CV, letter of mo-
tivation and two references via e-mail to Dr. Matthias
Erb (matthias.erb@unine.ch).
matthias.erb@unine.ch
Munster NGS Bioinformatics
WWU M¨ unster Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity
Evolutionary Bioinformatics
A highly motivated individual is sought for the follow-
ing project:
Bioinformatic Analysis of NGS Whole Genome Data
Taking advantage of next generation sequencing (NGS)
we are aiming to understand genomic variations and
their impact on ﬁtness. The three-spined stickleback
Gasterosteus aculeatus has become a model organism
for evolutionary and behavioural ecology par excellence
because of its wide distribution across the northern
hemisphere, repeated and independent adaptation to
rivers and lakes after the glacial period, the associated
morphological changes such as loss of bony armour and
a well annotated genome. Investigating genome archi-
tecture in a population sample we want to unravel ge-
nomic changes underlying adaptations and in particular
to understand the role of structural variation and copy
number variation. The great importance of structural
variations in the genome has recently been shown in
biomedical ﬁeld. Here, ﬁndings from the stickleback
model system will contribute to a better understanding
of the evolution and ﬁtness consequences of this type
of variation in the genome.
The position holder will be given the opportunity to
pursue a PhD project. Tasks include: ˆ a- Analysing
and comparing genome assemblies obtained by Illumina
and/or 454 ˆ a- Software development for downstream
variation analysis ˆ a- Setting up databases to improve
accessibility of the data ˆ a- Creating a web application
for whole genome data visualization
Essential qualiﬁcations are: ˆ a- MSc (or equivalent de-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
gree) in computer science, statistics or bioinformatics
with experience and/or desire to excel in a biological
area ˆ a- Basic skills in statistics and/or programming
ˆ a- Motivation and proven ability to carry out research
independently ˆ a- Good communication skills, English
Contact: p.feulner@wwu.de until the 15.4.2011 (appli-
cation should be send in a single pdf ﬁle, maximal 2
pages, including motivation, publications list, and de-
grees)
p.feulner@uni-muenster.de
NaturalHistoryMuseum London
Supertrees
Applications are invited for a PhD studentship at the
Natural History Museum, London, on maximum likeli-
hood supertrees
The project will be based at the Natural His-
tory Museum, London, and at University Col-
lege, London. The supervisors will be Drs
Mark Wilkinson (mw@bmnh.org) and Peter Foster
(p.foster2@gmail.com), Department of Zoology, The
Natural History Museum, and Prof Ziheng Yang
(z.yang@ucl.ac.uk), Research Dept. of Genetics, Evo-
lution and Environment, UCL.
The project will involve computational phylogenetic
methods development, speciﬁcally implementation and
testing of new models for evaluating supertrees. More
details are available on request from Peter Foster.
The studentship starts in October 2011, and is open to
EU nationals. The closing date for applications will be
11 April, 2011. Please send your application (full aca-
demic CV including two referees and covering letter)
to
Anna Hutson, Postgraduate Studies Administrator,
The Natural History Museum, Department of Botany,
Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD
Or electronically to A.Hutson@nhm.ac.uk.
Peter Foster Natural History Museum, London
Peter Foster <p.foster2@gmail.com >QueenMaryU BatSpeciation
Funded PhD - Start October 2011 or January 2012
“Hunting for speciation genes in bats”
Deadline 21st March 2010
I am seeking a highly motivated student to undertake
a PhD that tackles a central question in evolutionary
biology: how do new species form?
Growing evidence indicates reproductive barriers can
be established by divergence at a few loci. The idea
that only a few key genes can control speciation has
profound implications for explaining how species might
form without geographical isolation. The aim of this
project is to discover $B!H(Bspeciation genes$B!I(B in
echolocating horseshoe bats. These bats live in an
acoustic world and emit calls in order to hunt, avoid
obstacles and communicate. So selection pressures act-
ing on the call frequency for a particular diet or habitat
could also inﬂuence communication and vice versa. Call
frequency divergence might thus be related to rapid spe-
ciation seen in this group. The project will combine lab-
oratory work, ﬁeldwork and computational analyses, so
experience in one or more of these (and a willingness
to learn) is essential. The student will also need to be
able to work independently at times, as well as part of
a team.
For further details including instructions on how
to apply see: http://www.ﬁndaphd.com/search/-
showproject.asp?projectid=32227&inst=QLON-
BiSc&searchtype=l&theorder=2&page=1
Stephen Rossiter <s.j.rossiter@qmul.ac.uk >
SimonFraserU HPA-Stress evolution
PHD OPPORTUNITY in HPA-STRESS PROGRAM-
MING & EVOLUTION, SIMON FRASER UNIVER-
SITY
GOAL: We are seeking to recruit a graduate student
interested in pursuing a PhD on the early development
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (ˆ astressˆ a) axis.
PROJECT: The stress axis plays a critical role in deter-22 EvolDir April 1, 2011
mining an individualˆ as ability to cope with challenges
throughout the lifetime. However, the extent to which
stress axis function is ˆ acalibratedˆ a by prenatal stress
at diﬀerent gestational stages is unclear. This project
involves the use of a unique longitudinal data set to ex-
plore the impact of stress experienced during the ﬁrst
six weeks of gestation on post-natal stress response in
later life.
QUALIFICATIONS: We are seeking an individual
with: ˆ a Excellent academic record ˆ a Background in evo-
lutionary biology, physiology, genetics and/or epigenet-
ics ˆ a An evident commitment and passion for science
START: ideally, September 2011
WE OFFER: annual stipend, research funds, training
at the interface of evolutionary biology with physiol-
ogy, development, genetics and epigenetics, innovative
intellectual environment
LOCATION: Human Evolutionary Studies Program,
Faculty of Health Sciences and Dept. of Biology, Si-
mon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada.
PIs AND WEBSITES: Dr. Pablo A. Nepomnaschy
and Dr. Bernard Crespi Dr. Pablo A. Nepom-
naschy: http://www.sfu.ca/ ˜ pan2/Home.html Dr.
Bernard Crespi: http://www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/-
crespi/lab.html
APPLICATION: Please send a letter of intent and a
CV to Katrina Salvante <kgsalvan@sfu.ca >
Bernard Crespi <crespi@sfu.ca >
SoutheasternLouisianaU
ChloroplastGenomeEvol
Masters in Biology Project: Chloroplast Genome Evo-
lution Rick E. Miller’s Lab Southeastern Louisiana Uni-
versity
We invite a highly motivated graduate student (masters
degree) to participate in a research project examining
the molecular evolution of the chloroplast genome in
morning glories. We are presently obtaining 30 whole-
chloroplast genome sequences from an exemplar sample
of morning glories (members of the tribe Ipomoeeae).
Speciﬁcally, we are obtaining whole plastid sequences
using both 454 and Solexa sequencing for the 160,000
bp morning glory chloroplast genome. We are carrying
out both de novo and reference-based assembly. Then
we are forming contigs using Sequencher and annotat-ing the genomes with Dogma prior to submission to
GenBank.
These results provide a wonderful opportunity to exam-
ine the molecular evolution of the 81 well-characterized
genes of the chloroplast genome found in angiosperms,
as well as molecular evolutionary analyses of indel
hotspots and substitution patterns in non-coding re-
gions.
This research is being carried out in collaboration with
Jim Leebens-Mack at the University of Georgia. Other
research in our lab includes the systematics of morn-
ing glories, molecular evolution of anthocyanin path-
way regulatory genes, phylogeography of morning glory
species, and additional studies in evolutionary ecology.
Our lab includes masters students, but also an active
group of undergraduate research assistants.
I am making this announcement at this time because an
additional position has become available in our depart-
ment, which will provide support through a teaching
assistantship.
Hammond is located (on solid ground) about 50 miles
north of New Orleans and east of Baton Rouge. South-
eastern Louisiana University is primarily an undergrad-
uate institution, but the Department of Biological Sci-
ences has a strong group of research-oriented faculty.
Our masters degree is an excellent stepping stone to-
wards a Ph.D. or also is a good terminal degree, de-
pending on your career considerations.
The application deadline date for regular admission to
the department is 1 February, for students to begin in
the Fall 2011, however, because of the recent opening
we are extending the deadline until 1 April 2011. The
admissions requirements are modest including a Bach-
elor’s degree, a minimum GPA of 3.0, a minimum GRE
score of 1,000 (verbal + quantitative).
For more information about the details of the graduate
program, please consult our website about Graduate
Degrees in the Biology Department.
http://www.selu.edu/acad research/depts/biol/-
grad degree/index.html If you are interested in a
applying for a masters degree in our lab.
PLEASE CONTACT: Dr. Rick E. Miller Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences Southeastern Louisiana
University Hammond, LA 70401 985 549-5556
Email: rickmiller@selu.edu http://www2.selu.edu/-
Academics/Faculty/rickmiller/ Rick E. Miller, Ph.D.
Department of Biological Sciences Southeastern
Louisiana University Hammond, LA 70402
Biology Building Room 403 oﬃce/ 419 lab phone:
(985) 549-5556 FAX: (985) 549-3851 email: rick-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
miller@selu.edu http://www2.selu.edu/Academics/-
Faculty/rickmiller/ rickmiller@selu.edu
Tuebingen Germany 2
MarineEvolutionaryEcol
Two Ph.D.-student positions are available at the Uni-
versity of Tuebingen funded by the VolkswagenStiftung.
Apologies for cross-posting.
The project addresses context-dependent plasticity of
sexual selection. We will study the plasticity and evolu-
tion of sex roles within and across populations with dif-
ferent environmental contexts. Our main study species
is the common goby (Pomatoschistus microps) with ex-
clusive paternal care, plastic sex-roles, and a mating
system that is highly aﬀected by its natural and social
context such as by nest availability, predation risk, wa-
ter temperature, operational sex-ratio, and mate com-
petition. Coastal areas of the Baltic Sea provide a nat-
ural gradient in terms of biotic, abiotic, and commu-
nity ecological factors. We will study how the envi-
ronmental, ecological, and demographic context aﬀects
populations and the mating system. We will conduct
experiments and population surveys to obtain relevant
data.
Requirements: Applicants should have a keen interest
in doing experimental work with small ﬁsh in the ﬁeld,
and in performing molecular analyses and behavioural
assays in the lab. The ideal candidates for this project
have a background in evolutionary ecology (or a related
ﬁeld), are highly motivated, creative and independent.
A Diplom or MSc degree (or equivalent) in Biology,
Ecology or a related discipline is required.
The new team will be part of Animal Evolutionary
Ecology at the Institute of Evolution and Ecology at
the University of Tuebingen. Regular visits of ﬁeld
sites and extended stays at research stations, mainly
in Finland, Sweden and Germany during the ﬁeld sea-
son (May-July) are essential. The working language in
Tuebingen and at the ﬁeld stations is English. However,
for everyday life at the University and in Tuebingen (lo-
cated in southern Germany, close to Stuttgart), some
knowledge of German will be advantageous.
Both positions are ﬁxed-term for 4 years. The salary
and beneﬁts are set according to the German salary
scale TV-L E13 (50%). In case of equal quality of ap-
plicants, those with disabilities will be preferred. TheUniversity of Tuebingen aims to increase the represen-
tation of women in research and teaching and therefore
encourages female scientists to apply.
Please send your application by email as one single
pdf-ﬁle including 1) a letter of motivation, 2) CV, 3)
name and email of at least two references who could
be contacted, 4) short description of current and future
research interests 5) a 1-page summary of your MSc
project or undergraduate work and research experience
to katja.heubel(at)helsinki.ﬁ.
Review of applications will start from 15 April 2011
onwards, but candidates will be considered until the
positions are ﬁlled. Start date: 1 August 2011 or on
appointment. For more information, feel free to con-
tact me!
Dr. Katja Heubel Advanced Fellow - Volkswagen-
Stiftung, University Lecturer, Department of Bio-
sciences, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Helsinki, Finland.
After 1.8.2011: University of Tuebingen, Department
of Biology, Institute for Evolution and Ecology, Animal
Evolutionary Ecology, Auf der Morgenstelle 28 D-72076
Tuebingen, Germany
links: http://www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de
http://www.eve.uni-tuebingen.de http://-
www.volkswagenstiftung.de/funding/challenges/-
evolutionary-biology.htm l?L=1 http://-
luoto.tvarminne.helsinki.ﬁ/english/index.htm
http://www.eseb2011.de/tuebingen.htm http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/people/katja.heubel/ Dr. Katja
Heubel, Docent University Lecturer Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Department of Biosciences, PO Box
65 (Viikinkaari 1), FIN-00014 University of Helsinki,
FINLAND
phone +358 9 191 57806 fax -57694
oﬃce location: Biokeskus 3, room 6403
email: katja.heubel@helsinki.ﬁ http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/people/katja.heubel/ Katja Heubel
<katja.heubel@helsinki.ﬁ >
UBristol EvolutionBehaviour
PHD STUDENTSHIP ON “THE EVOLUTION OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL MECH-
ANISMS FOR BEHAVIOUR”
Supervisors: Prof. Alasdair Houston, Prof. John Mc-24 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Namara & Dr Tim Fawcett Modelling Animal Decisions
(MAD) Group, University of Bristol
We are seeking a talented and enthusiastic student for
a PhD position in our group, as part of an exciting new
ERC-funded project on ’The evolution of mechanisms
controlling behaviour’. This is an ambitious, interdisci-
plinary project which aims to shed light on the internal
workings of behaviour and lead to a better understand-
ing of how evolution has shaped decision making in a
wide variety of animals, from invertebrates to humans.
THE PROJECT
The PhD project will involve the development of
mathematical and computational models of animal be-
haviour, based on evolutionary theory. A key part of
the work will be to integrate mechanistic considerations
into evolutionary models, in order to understand how
behaviour is aﬀected by constraints in evolved psycho-
logical and physiological systems. Within the general
aims of the project, the candidate will have the freedom
to develop the work along the lines that interest them
most. The issues we are currently working on include:
- The evolution of irrational preferences. Animals (in-
cluding humans) value rewards (food, money, etc.) in a
subjective and sometimes inconsistent way. For exam-
ple, gains and losses often seem to matter more than the
animal’s ﬁnal state. We are using evolutionary models
to try to explain this apparently irrational behaviour.
- The evolution of patience. In some situations animals
act impulsively, seeking instant gratiﬁcation, while in
other situations they are willing to wait for a greater re-
ward. We are trying to understand what ecological fac-
tors favour impulsive behaviour and what factors favour
patience.
- The evolution of obesity. One hypothesis for the rise
in obesity in the developed world is that our evolved
foraging strategies no longer work well in environments
where energy-rich food is readily available. We are us-
ing evolutionary models of dietary preferences to exam-
ine whether this is a plausible explanation.
- The evolution of emotions. Although animal be-
haviour is complex, it seems to be related to a small
number of motivational drives, for example fear, hunger
and sexual arousal. We are building models of the evo-
lution of emotional states to help us understand why
behaviour is organised in this way.
We collaborate closely with empirical biologists working
on a range of diﬀerent systems, but the PhD project will
be theoretical. The major techniques we use include op-
timality theory, game theory, dynamic programming,
genetic algorithms, neural networks and genetic pro-gramming. Training in these methods will be provided,
but we are seeking a student with good skills in math-
ematics or computer science.
McNamara, J. M. & Houston, A. I. 2009. Integrating
function and mechanism. Trends in Ecology & Evolu-
tion 24: 670-675.
THE WORKING ENVIRONMENT
The successful candidate will join a new, dynamic
research group under the leadership of Profs Alas-
dair Houston and John McNamara, world lead-
ers in theoretical approaches to studying ani-
mal behaviour. The Modelling Animal Decisions
(MAD) group ( www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/research/-
behaviour/mad ) is based in the School of Biological
Sciences and has strong links with researchers in Mathe-
matics, Computer Science, Psychology, Philosophy and
Animal Welfare. We have ongoing collaborations with
experts elsewhere in Britain and throughout the EU,
and there will be opportunities to travel to interna-
tional workshops and conferences as part of the PhD
project.
The University of Bristol is one of the top research uni-
versities in the UK and is the pre-eminent institute
for mathematical approaches to studying animal be-
haviour. Students have access to world-class library and
computing facilities and are immersed in a vibrant re-
search environment, with several active seminar series,
frequent visits from prominent international scientists
and an active social scene. The School of Biological
Sciences runs a special training scheme for graduate
students, oﬀering a variety of modules and workshops
to improve skills in statistics, communication, collabo-
ration, time management, peer review, public engage-
ment and much more besides.
WHO WE ARE LOOKING FOR
We are seeking a student with good mathematical
and/or computational skills. Applicants should have
(or expect to obtain) a degree in Mathematics, Physics,
Computer Science or a related discipline. We also en-
courage applications from Biological Sciences students
whose degree includes a substantial (i.e. >30%) math-
ematical component. A keen interest in evolutionary
biology is essential.
The studentship is open to all EU students. Those
from within the UK need at least an upper second-class
Bachelors degree before they can take up the position.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
UCL Belgium Cambridge
ButterﬂyPheromones
We are looking for applicants for a PhD project about
“The role of sex pheromones in reproductive isola-
tion among /Heliconius/ butterﬂies”. The project is
a collaboration between Chris Jiggins and the /But-
terﬂy Genetics Group/ in Cambridge, UK and Caro-
line Nieberding in the Acad´ emie Louvain (UCL), Bel-
gium. Potential funding sources are available from
Belgium starting October 1 ^st , 2011. There is also
potential for collaboration with Luana Maroja, at
Williams College, and Mathieu Joron at the Natural
History Museum in Paris who are also beginning to ex-
plore pheromonal communication in /Heliconius/. The
project will also beneﬁt from the fact that Prof. P.
Brakeﬁeld has recently moved to Cambridge, bringing
considerable expertise in butterﬂy evolutionary genet-
ics and pheromonal communication in particular.
/Heliconius/is a diverse neotropical genus famous for
M¨ ullerian mimicry, where unrelated species converge in
their aposematic colour patterns to more eﬃciently ad-
vertise their unpalatability to predators. Sister taxa
tend to belong to diﬀerent mimicry rings and evi-
dence suggests that shifts in colour pattern can cause
both pre-mating and post-mating isolation, thereby
promoting rapid speciation. These colour patterns
are therefore a clear example of an ecological trait
with a pleiotropic eﬀect on mate choice and could be
considered ’magic traits’ (sensu Gavrilets). However,
pheromones also play an important role in butterﬂy
courtship but little is known about them in /Helico-
nius/. This project aims to characterise and explore
the importance of pheromones in /Heliconius/ speci-
ation. We postulate that reproductive isolation be-
tween sympatric related species of /Heliconius/ must
involve olfactory communication, especially where such
species share wing patterns due to mimicry. We antici-
pate that females recognize conspeciﬁc mating partners
based on the diﬀerentiation of male sex pheromones (in
composition, titres or ratios) used during courtship, be-
tween closely related species. Experiments will involve
manipulation of butterﬂy phenotypes, behavioural ex-
periments and chemical exploration of the chemical di-
versity present in /Heliconius/. Little is known about
pheromonal communication in /Heliconius/, so there
is enormous scope for this project to develop in diﬀer-ent directions. Possible future avenues include studies
of the genetic basis of pheromonal diﬀerences between
populations, or the information content of pheromonal
signals within species.
We are looking for a strongly motivated PhD candi-
date with a Msc in the broad ﬁeld of Evolutionary
Biology and Ecology. The successful applicant is ex-
pected to apply, with our full support, for a 4-year
PhD grant delivered by the FNRS in Belgium, where
chances to get funded will be high if training is seri-
ously done. The deadline for the application is Septem-
ber 1 ^st , 2011 and will be followed by an interview
within the next 8 weeks. Salary ranges between 1600-
1800 euros netto per month plus beneﬁts (health in-
surance,...) which are included in the Belgian sys-
tem. Applications should be sent by email to Chris Jig-
gins (c.jiggins@zoo.cam.ac.uk) and Caroline Nieberding
(caroline.nieberding@uclouvain.be) and should include
the following: (1) a cover letter describing your research
interests and qualiﬁcations, (2) a full CV, (3) contact
information of minimum 2 referees. Informal inquiries
are welcome. Applications will be reviewed directly un-
til the position is ﬁlled.
Caroline Nieberding <caroline.nieberding@uclouvain.be >
UDusseldorf MolEvol SexGenes
UD¨ usseldorf PhD position-molecular evolution of sex
determining genes in social hymenoptera (Heinrich-
Heine University D¨ usseldorf, Department of Biology,
Group of Evolutionary Genetics)
Application deadline: 30. April 2011
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD candidate
to study the population dynamic and molecular evo-
lution of sex determining genes in social hymenoptera
(honey and bumble bees). Understanding the evolu-
tionary forces and processes that have led to the fas-
cinating (single locus) sex determining system in these
bees will contribute to elucidate general principles in
evolution. Sex determination in the honey bee Apis
mellifera is governed by heterozygosity at a single lo-
cus harbouring the complementary sex determiner (csd)
gene, which arose by a gene duplication before honey
bee divergence. Bees heterozygous at csd are females,
whereas homozygotes and hemizygotes (haploid indi-
viduals) are males. Diploid males occur when csd is
homozygous and are lethal in Apis mellifera. Rare al-
leles thus have a selective advantage, are seldom lost26 EvolDir April 1, 2011
by the eﬀect of genetic drift, and are maintained over
extended periods of time when compared with neutral
polymorphisms.
The ideal candidate should have a Masters degree (or
equivalent degree) and have a strong background in
population genetics, including excellent skills in molec-
ular lab work and major interest in bioinformatics. Pre-
vious experience with bees is beneﬁcial. We oﬀer a stim-
ulating and dynamic working environment and excel-
lent research facilities. Further information about the
group, including latest publications (PNAS; Nature,
PlosBiol) can be found under http://www.genetik.uni-
duesseldorf.de/Gruppen/beye . The position (TV-L 13
65%) is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft for three years. Applicants should send a cover
letter, C.V., list of publications, a statement outlin-
ing past research experience and particular motivation
for the position (max. 2 pages), and contact details of
2-3 referees to martin.hasselmann@uni-duesseldorf.de.
Please contact me for any further questions and send
in your application as a single pdf by 30. April 2011
latest. The candidate should be start working by mid
of 2011.
– Dr. Martin Hasselmann Heinrich-Heine Universitaet
Duesseldorf Assistant Professor Institut fuer Genetik
Universitaetsstr. 1 Gebaeude 26.03, Ebene U1 Raum
68A 40225 Duesseldorf
Tel. : ++49-0211/8114808 Fax : ++49-0211/8112279
email: martin.hasselmann@uni-duesseldorf.de
http://www.genetik.uni-duesseldorf.de/Gruppen/-
beye/Hasselmann Martin Hasselmann
<Martin.Hasselmann@uni-duesseldorf.de >
ULausanne
PopulationGenomicsDevo
A PhD position is open for a collaborative project be-
tween the labs of Prof. Alexandre Reymond (Genome
Structure and Expression) and Prof. Marc Robinson-
Rechavi (Evolutionary Bioinformatics). The project
concerns the interface between Population Genomics
and Developmental Biology. We will study how genome
structural changes aﬀect gene expression during mouse
development, and possibly adaptation. The work will
involve bioinformatics, as well as some molecular biol-
ogy.
We are looking for an autonomous and ambitious stu-dent, with a strong motivation to understand funda-
mental questions in biology, and an open mind towards
using computational and experimental tools towards
this end. The ideal candidate will have basic training
in biology, and a degree in bioinformatics or computer
science.
The student will receive training in bioinformatics and
in experimental biology, and participate in the activities
of the new doctoral program in Population Genomics
(http://www.unil.ch/pg/page75326.html ).
Please send a CV and contact information of two refer-
ences to: alexandre.reymond@unil.ch; marc.robinson-
rechavi@unil.ch
Websites for additional information: http:/-
/www.unil.ch/cig/page8508 en.html http://-
bioinfo.unil.ch/ Marc Robinson-Rechavi Department
of Ecology and Evolution Biophore 3219, University
of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland tel: +41 21
692 4220 fax: +41 21 692 4165 http://bioinfo.unil.ch/
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics http://www.isb-
sib.ch/groups/lausanne/eb-robinson-rechavi.html La
liberte ne s’use que quand on ne s’en sert pas
marc.robinson-rechavi@unil.ch
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics
Ph.D. position in ﬁsh population genomics and conser-
vation
I am currently searching for a Ph.D. candidate for con-
ducting a research project on the population genomics
in the American eel. Three speciﬁc research objectives
are being achieved as part of this research program that
involves several other academic researchers and govern-
ment partners: i) to characterize the availability of ma-
rine and estuarine habitats in Canadian waters, ii) to
test the existence of glass eel/elver ecotypes in fresh
and marine water in the theoretical framework of con-
ditional strategies, and iii) to document the genetic,
physiological, and behavioural basis of the control of
the expression of these ecotypes and their propensity
to occupy diﬀerent habitats. From an applied perspec-
tive, this project will provide knowledge for improving
the conservation of the species and its sustained ex-
ploitation. From a fundamental point of view, the re-
sults will contribute to a better understanding of the
mechanisms underlying the proximal and ultimate con-
trol of continental dispersion of eel and its consequencesApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
on adaptation to heterogeneous habitats.
The candidate will be speciﬁcally involved in the reali-
sation of the objective dealing on population genomics
and testing for the eﬀect of natural selection at the
molecular level associated with use of contrasted habi-
tats. This will involved the use of next-generation se-
quencing methods, the development and genotyping of
SNP markers, as well as bioinformatic treatment and
analysis of large data base. The ideal candidate should
thus possess strong skills in any of those applications,
as well as a solid background in evolutionary biology
and interests for conservation genomics.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your re-
search interests, a complete CV and names of three
references by e-mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
To know more about;
Quebec City:
http://www.quebecregion.com/e/ Laval University:
http://www.ulaval.ca/ Our laboratory: http://-
www2.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/presentation.htm
Opportunit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdˆ aun Ph.D. au Qu ˜Ac/circlecopyrtbec en
g˜Ac/circlecopyrtnomique des populations et de la conservation
des poissons.
Je suis ˜A la recherche dˆ aun(e) candidat(e) pour
r˜Ac/circlecopyrtaliser une th ˜Ase portant sur la g ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnomique des
populations dˆ aanguille dˆ aAm ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique. Trois objec-
tifs sp ˜Ac/circlecopyrtciﬁques seront r ˜Ac/circlecopyrtalis˜Ac/circlecopyrts dans le cadre
de ce programme de recherche qui implique plusieurs
chercheurs universitaires et partenaires gouvernemen-
taux soient ; i) caract ˜Ac/circlecopyrtriser la disponibilit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdes
habitats marins et estuariens dans les eaux canadi-
ennes, ii) tester l’existence d’ ˜Ac/circlecopyrtcotypes de civelles
d’eau douce et marines dans le cadre th ˜Ac/circlecopyrtorique de la
strat ˜Ac/circlecopyrtgie conditionnelle, et iii) documenter les bases
g˜Ac/circlecopyrtn˜Ac/circlecopyrttiques, physiologiques et comportementales
du d ˜Ac/circlecopyrtterminisme de l’expression de ces ˜Ac/circlecopyrtcotypes
et de leur propension ˜A occuper diﬀ ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrents habi-
tats. Outre ses retomb ˜Ac/circlecopyrtes appliqu ˜Ac/circlecopyrtes pour
am˜Ac/circlecopyrtliorer la gestion et la conservation de lˆ aesp ˜Ace,
ce projet vise ˜A approfondir les connaissances sur les
m˜Ac/circlecopyrtcanismes sous-jacents au contr ˜Ale proximal et
ultime de la dispersion continentale de l’anguille et
de ses cons ˜Ac/circlecopyrtquences sur l’adaptation aux habitats
h˜Ac/circlecopyrtt˜Ac/circlecopyrtrog˜Anes.
Lˆ a˜Ac/circlecopyrttudiant recrut ˜Ac/circlecopyrtsera sp ˜Ac/circlecopyrtciﬁquement im-
pliqu ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdans la r ˜Ac/circlecopyrtalisation du troisi ˜Ame objec-
tif portant essentiellement sur la g ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnomique des
populations et la mise en ˜Ac/circlecopyrtvidence au niveau
mol˜Ac/circlecopyrtculaire de lˆ aeﬀet de la s ˜Ac/circlecopyrtlection naturelle
associ ˜Ac/circlecopyrte˜A lˆ autilisation dˆ ahabitats contrast ˜Ac/circlecopyrts.
Ceci fera notamment appel ˜A lˆ autilisation des tech-niques de s ˜Ac/circlecopyrtquen ˜Ade nouvelle g ˜Ac/circlecopyrtn˜Ac/circlecopyrtration,
au d ˜Ac/circlecopyrtveloppement et au g ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnotypage de mar-
queurs SNP, ainsi quˆ aau traitement bioinformatique de
grandes bases de donn ˜Ac/circlecopyrtes. Le candidat id ˜Ac/circlecopyrtal de-
vrait donc poss ˜Ac/circlecopyrtder une solide expertise dans au
moins une ou lˆ aautre de ses applications de m ˜Ame
quˆ aune solide formation en biologie ˜Ac/circlecopyrtvolutive et un
int˜Ac/circlecopyrtr˜At marqu ˜Ac/circlecopyrtpour la g ˜Ac/circlecopyrtn˜Ac/circlecopyrttique de la con-
servation.
Le poste est ouvert d ˜As maintenant, mais pourra
d˜Ac/circlecopyrtbuter jusquˆ aen septembre 2011. Pour appliquer,
faites parvenir une lettre de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
ULethbridge
AvianPopulationGenetics
Population Genetics of North American Forest Birds
A graduate assistantship (M.Sc.) is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Theresa Burg at the University of
Lethbridge starting Sept 2011. I am looking for a
highly motivated graduate student to work with me
to study large-scale population divergence of birds.
The project involves both laboratory and ﬁeld-based
research and the use of high-throughput DNA-based
methodologies. Students must be able to work indepen-
dently and as part of a group. Candidates should have
a solid undergraduate background in evolution, and ge-
netics. Prior research experience with molecular tech-
niques and mistnetting are desirable but not required.
Please consult the Graduate Studies website ( http:/-
/www.uleth.ca/graduatestudies/ ) for admissions crite-
ria, tuition fees and other expenses.
For more information please contact Theresa Burg at
theresa.burg@uleth.ca. The deadline is April 11 or un-
til the position is ﬁlled. Please send me a copy of your
CV, transcripts and research statement, if you are in-
terested.
Thanks
Theresa Burg
http://people.uleth.ca/ ˜ theresa.burg
theresa.burg@uleth.ca28 EvolDir April 1, 2011
ULondon PlantMicrobeCoevolution
Hi Evol dir,
There is NERC-funded PhD studentship available at
Royal Holloway University of London that will investi-
gate the coevolution and evolutionary ecology of plant
microbe interactions. There is increasing interest in
the ability of root-associated bacteria to promote the
growth of plants via improved nutrient uptake or sup-
pression of pathogens. Applied crop research has indi-
cated that these bacteria have the potential to improve
crop yields, especially in developing countries where
costs can limit the application of fungicides and fer-
tilizers. The basic biology of many of these spore- for-
mers is still relatively unknown, and this PhD aims to
improves our understanding of how ecological factors
and/or evolutionary relationships with host plants af-
fect this symbiosis, and may ultimately help growers
select strains appropriate to particular crops or soils.
Please feel free to contact ben.raymond@rhul.ac.uk for
further details. UK residency is a requirement for the
full NERC funding, although EU residents are eligible
for a fees-only award.
Dr Ben Raymond, NERC Advanced Research Fellow,
Lecturer in Population Genetics, School of Biological
Sciences, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham,
Surrey. TW20 0EX
tel 0044 1784443547 Ben.Raymond@rhul.ac.uk
Ben Raymond <Ben.Raymond@rhul.ac.uk >
UNeuchatel
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
PhD Student in Plant Ecological Genomics at the Uni-
versity of Neuchatel, Switzerland
A PhD position is available in the Laboratory of Evolu-
tionary Botany at the University of Neuchatel (Switzer-
land) to contribute to our ongoing projects on trans-
posable elements, genome organization and speciation
in Brassicaceae.
The PhD project aims at understanding the mecha-nisms of reproductive isolation in the alpine autopoly-
ploid complex Biscutella laevigata. In particular, pop-
ulations showing signature of local adaptation in the
face of gene ﬂow will be used to highlight genes and
genetic architectures underlying adaptive responses to
solar radiation.
We are seeking a highly motivated and independent stu-
dent that has completed an MSc degree in evolution-
ary ecology or plant molecular genetics. You should
be familiar with (i) ﬁeld sampling and experimental
design, (ii) molecular techniques and (iii) statistical
analysis (skills in NGS bioinformatics would be an as-
set). Strong organizational and communication (En-
glish) skills are required. Interested candidates are en-
couraged to make informal contacts.
Motivated applicants should submit (i) a one-page let-
ter that summarizes their research interests and ex-
perience, and their motivation for working on this
project, (ii) CV, and (iii) contact information of
2-3 reference persons (all as one PDF) to: chris-
tian.parisod@unine.ch
Closing date is on May 1st, 2011. The position will be-
gin June 1st, 2011. Yearly salary: CHF 38000 - 44000.
Dr Christian Parisod Evolutionary Botany University
of Neuchatel Rue Emile-Argand 11 2000 Neuchˆ atel
- Switzerland Phone: +41 32 718 2344, Fax:
+41 32 718 3001 e-mail: christian.parisod@unine.ch
http://www2.unine.ch/evobot/page29932.html Chris-
tian Parisod <christian.parisod@unine.ch >
UNewSouthWales
DolphinPopulationGenetics
PhD Position Dolphin Population Viability Analysis
FORECASTING DEMOGRAPHY OF BOT-
TLENOSE DOLPHINS
A/Prof W Sherwin Evolution and Ecology Centre, Uni-
versity of New South Wales
With partners from Murdoch University we are funded
to study ecology, threats, and genetics of Bunbury
(WA) bottlenose dolphins. The PhD student at UNSW
will use these data in existing or novel programs,
to evaluate population viability with diﬀerent man-
agement and threats. The work involves integration
between demographic, ecological, and genetical ap-
proaches. There would be ﬁeld-trips to Bunbury. YouApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
should be qualiﬁed in population ecology, with good
numerical and computational skills. A knowledge of
molecular ecology would be an advantage. Molecular
ecology qualiﬁcations are desirable.
PROCEDURE
(1) DISCUSS: Email letter with CV, academic record,
and details of two academic referees, to A/Prof Bill
Sherwin (W.Sherwin@unsw.edu.au). For further infor-
mation phone: +61-2-9385-2119. Your letter should
include explicit explanation of how your results are suf-
ﬁcient to allow application for a SCHOLARSHIP at
UNSW (see below for grades required). We cannot con-
sider other applications.
(2) PhD M/Phil CANDIDACY APPLICATION: Re-
quirements for PhD are BSc (Hons 1), MSc, or equiv-
alent. For MPhil, requirement is BSc. Speciﬁc ar-
eas essential and desirable are shown for each project
above. Solid research and communication skills. Full
NSW driver license desirable. For exact timing and de-
tails www.grs.unsw.edu.au/homepage.html (3a) PhD
SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION - LOCAL: Citizens
or permanent residents of Australia/NZ, apply for APA
and UPA at UNSW. You will need to have completed a
research degree (eg MSc or BSc Honours research year),
with results which are equivalent to 85% or higher, in
order to be competitive for these scholarships. Pub-
lications in ISI-listed international journals will help
also. Applications are due 25 Mar 2011, for study com-
mencing in Second Session in 2011. For exact appli-
cation timing and details see www.grs.unsw.edu.au/-
scholarships/local.html
(3b) PhD SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION ˆA IN-
TERNATIONAL: Applicants who are NOT- citizens
or permanent residents of Australia/NZ, can apply for
IPRS and UIPA at UNSW. In order to be competitive
for these scholarships, you will need to have completed
a research degree (eg MSc or BSc Honours research
year), with results which are equivalent to 95% or
higher. Note that a coursework MSc is NOT accept-
able. Publications in ISI-listed international journals
will help also. Applications are due 25 Mar 2011, for
study commencing in Second Session in 2011. For
exact timing and details see www.grs.unsw.edu.au/-
scholarships/internationalschols.html (3c) M Phil
SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATION. Local and interna-
tional students can apply for a $4000 stipend form
the EERC, UNSW. International students can apply
for a tuition fee waiver scholarship, provided that
they can formally guarantee the remainder of their
own stipend www.grs.unsw.edu.au/scholarships/-
internationalschols.html www.eerc.unsw.edu.au/-
GradProgram.html Associate Professor WB SherwinCo-coordinator, Genetics Plan Evolution & Ecology
Research Centre Deputy Head, School of Biologi-
cal Earth and Environmental Science, University
of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052 Aus-
tralia W.Sherwin@unsw.edu.au PH:61-2-9385-2119
FX: 61-2-9385-1558 http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/-
school/staﬀ/sherwin/sherwinwilliam.html CRICOS
provider code 00098G
William Sherwin <w.sherwin@unsw.edu.au >
UParis6 EvolutionOfAntCastes
GraduatePosition;UParis6.EvolutionOfAntCastes
PhD position (3 years starting September 1st 2011)
Equipe Evolution of Animal Societies, Laboratoire
Ecologie & Evolution CNRS UMR 7625, Universit
Pierre et Marie Curie, 7 quai Saint Bernard, 75005 Paris
Supervisors : Mathieu Molet and Thibaud Monnin
Contact : mathieu.molet@gmail.com; +33 1 44 27 26
94
Web site : http://ecologie.snv.jussieu.fr/socialite/
Anomalous queen-worker mosaics drive the evolution
of novel phenotypes in ants
Studying the mechanisms that allow for the produc-
tion, survival and selection of novel phenotypes is cru-
cial to understand biodiversity. The classic evolu-
tionary mechanism involves random mutations and se-
lection. Molet, Wheeler and Peeters (2010) propose
an extension, only available to polyphenic organisms,
i.e. exhibiting phenotypic plasticity with discrete al-
ternative forms, where traits from existing alternative
phenotypes are recycled and recombined to generate
novel mosaic phenotypes. Because these traits have al-
ready been tested by natural selection in the pheno-
types where they normally occur, mosaics are likely to
be viable. They can be selected because they result
from variability in genes that control the sensitivity
thresholds responsible for the polyphenism. Molet et
al. (2010) also propose that in social taxa, anomalous
phenotypes have higher probability of survival since the
colony buﬀers them against the outside environment.
Accordingly, we suggest that polyphenic and/or social
organisms show an enhanced potential for evolving bio-
diversity.
Ants are an ideal model to test these two hypothe-
ses. They live in societies where reproduction is30 EvolDir April 1, 2011
not shared equally. Fundamental to this division of
labour is an ancestral female polyphenism with two
castes: winged queens specialized in colony found-
ing and egg-laying cooperate with wingless workers
that perform all other tasks. These two adult phe-
notypes are environmentally-determined during larval
development. Ants produce rare anomalous pheno-
types called intercastes that are intermediate between
winged queens and workers. These intercastes can be
the ﬁrst step towards the numerous novel castes that
have evolved in ants, such as wingless queens and sol-
diers.
The PhD student will investigate the production of in-
tercastes in colonies of *Mystrium *and *Temnotho-
rax*. Using ethological, morphometric and dissection
methods, he/she will assess whether they are mosaics
that survive in the colonies where they emerge, mea-
sure the costs that they may inﬂict on colonies, and
test whether they can occasionally bring beneﬁts to
colonies by providing new functions or performing ex-
isting functions more economically. He/She will also
expose colonies to various environmental conditions in
order to reveal some parameters that can inﬂuence in-
tercaste production.
The applicant should have a B.Sc. (Hons) and a good
English level. He/She should have skills in several of
the following area: ecology, evolution, ethology, mor-
phometry, social insects. Fieldwork in France or other
countries (Madagascar’) will be planned.
Email motivation letter, CV, academic records, and de-
tails of two academic referees, to Dr Mathieu Molet
(mathieu.molet@gmail.com). For further information
phone: +33 1 44 27 26 94. Application deadline is May
1. Interviews will take place end of May.
Molet M., Wheeler D., Peeters C. (2010) Developmen-
tal mosaics, social buﬀering, and the evolution of novel
castes in ants. Congress of the International Union for
the Study of Social Insects, Copenhague, Danemark.
– Mathieu Molet mathieu.molet@gmail.com http://-
www.mathieumolet.fr/ Laboratoire Ecologie & Evolu-
tion UMR 7625 Universit Pierre et Marie Curie 7 quai
St Bernard bat A, 7me tage 75005 Paris, FRANCE Tel.
+33 (0)1 44 27 26 94 Fax. +33 (0)1 44 27 35 16
Mathieu Molet <mathieu.molet@gmail.com >
UPotsdam SmallMammalDynamicsBiodiversity and Functional Ecology of Agricultural
Landscapes
The University of Potsdam (UP) together with the
Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape Research
(ZALF) and the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife
Research (IZW) oﬀers
3 PhD positions
within the following topics: - Public Health: Density
and spatial distribution of small mammals as hosts
for ticks and of ticks as vectors for Lyme borreliosis,
prevalence and diversity of tick-borne pathogens, spa-
tiotemporal modelling of human infection risk in re-
sponse to agricultural landscape structures (supervi-
sors: J. Eccard, UP; F-R. Matuschka / D. Richter,
Charit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt; B. Schr¨ oder, UP / ZALF) - Ecosystem
services of bats with respect to agricultural landscape
structures, Quantiﬁcation of the economic beneﬁts of
bat species through consumption of agricultural pest
insects. Acoustic monitoring of bats, spatial analysis of
habitat use, insect diversity and diet analysis (supervi-
sors J. Eccard, UP; C. Voigt, IZW) - Experimental as-
sessment of establishment dynamics and genetic struc-
ture of plant and animal species in response to agricul-
tural landscape structures; modelling of dispersal dy-
namics and interspeciﬁc interactions (supervisors: J.
Joshi, UP; B. Schr¨ oder, UP / ZALF) All three projects
oﬀer a challenging scientiﬁc task in the stimulating en-
vironment of a research collaboration between UP and
two Leibniz-Institutes. The projects combine a variety
of diﬀerent methods and techniques, and a broad range
of training options will be available to the candidates.
Candidates should have a master degree or Diploma
in Biology, Geoecology or Landscape Ecology and are
expected to be highly motivated to perform both in-
dependent ﬁeld and laboratory work. They must be
team players for synergies in ﬁeld work. At least one of
the following expertises is required: experience in ﬁeld
work with small terrestrial mammals, bats or plants,
modelling, spatial statistics. Experience in molecular
biological methods is a beneﬁt. Good English language
skills and driverˆ as license are required.
The dissertations are funded through university
stipends (until 12-2012) and followed by PhD positions
at the Leibniz institutes (12-18 months). Candidates
will participate in the Potsdam Graduate School and
will be situated both at Potsdam Sanssouci Ecology
Campus and the counterpart institutes. Field work will
be performed at the research station of ZALF in Dede-
low (Uckermark), laboratory work at UP and the coop-
erating institutes. For each position, please submit your
application as a single pdf including CV, names and
contact information of two references, and a letter ofApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
motivation to Prof. Eccard (mthrun@uni-potsdam.de).
Please indicate the title of the position you are apply-
ing for in the subject line of your email. We will start
reviewing the applications on May 1st, 2011 until po-
sitions are ﬁlled. The positions will be available from
June 1st, 2011.
UP, ZALF and IZW are equal opportunities employers
and place particular emphasis on fostering career op-
portunities for female scientists. Qualiﬁed women are
therefore encouraged to apply.
For further information please contact Prof. Eccard,
Animal Ecology, Frau Thrun, 0331-977-1920 University
of Potsdam, Maulbeerallee 1, 14469 Potsdam, Germany
Prof. Dr. Jasmin Joshi
Biodiversity Research/Systematic Botany Institute of
Biochemistry and Biology University of Potsdam
Maulbeerallee 1 D-14469 Potsdam
Germany Tel. ++49 331 977 4884 Fax ++49 331
977 4865 e-mail jjoshi@uni-potsdam.de e-mail jas-
min.joshi@ieu.uzh.ch
Jasmin Joshi <jjoshi@uni-potsdam.de >
UQueensland ReefFish
Maybe the Best Biology PhD in the world The function
of reef ﬁsh colour patterns: how did the coral trout get
its spots?
Ok, you didn1t get the OBest Job In The World1
(www.islandreefjob.com ), which involved snorkeling on
the Great Barrier Reef, living for weeks on remote
tropical islands, and spending hours watching brightly
coloured reef ﬁsh.
So, why not come to The University of Queensland and
do all that, and get a PhD?
We are looking for 1-2 outstanding PhD candidates to
work on a project investigating the evolution and func-
tion of reef ﬁsh colour patterns.
Students will be based at The University of Queensland,
Brisbane, Australia, in the Queensland Brain Institute
and work in collaboration with researchers in the School
of Biological Sciences, UQ and at the University of Bris-
tol, UK. Supervisors will be Prof. Justin Marshall, Dr.
Karen Cheney, Dr. Shelby Temple and/or Prof. Tom
Cribb.Applicants should have interests and preferably ex-
perience in neuroethology, neurobiology, sensory biol-
ogy, ﬁsh behaviour, evolution of visual signals, phy-
logenetics and/or animal communication mechanisms.
The PhD will include behavioural experiments, ﬁeld
observations, ﬁeld spectrophotometry, retinal anatomy
and/or microspectrophotometry.
The ideal candidate would be a qualiﬁed SCUBA
diver, have experience in the ﬁeld, and be pre-
pared to spend time at ﬁeld stations, such as
Lizard Island ( http://australianmuseum.net.au/-
Lizard-Island-Research-Station ) and Heron Island
(http://www.science.uq.edu.au/facilities/heron-island
).
Prospective students will be expected to secure ei-
ther an: Australian Postgraduate Award (APA; for
Australian citizens) OR an International Postgrad-
uate Research Scholarship (IPRS; International stu-
dents). N.B. to be competitive for an IPRS at least
one publication, preferably as ﬁrst author, may be
required. For information on these awards go to:
http://www.uq.edu.au/grad-school/ This PhD will
provide excellent scope for integrative research, for
unique skill acquisition, as well as for personal de-
velopment. For further information please contact
Karen Cheney (k.cheney@uq.edu.au) or Shelby Temple
(Shelby.Temple@bristol.ac.uk)
To apply, please send a C.V. and covering letter
outlining past research experience to Karen Cheney:
k.cheney@uq.edu.au. Deadline is 15th April, 2011.
k.cheney@uq.edu.au
UTuebingen 2
MarineEvolutionaryEcology
Two Ph.D.-student positions are available at the Uni-
versity of Tuebingen, Germany funded by the Volkswa-
genStiftung. Apologies for cross-posting.
The project addresses context-dependent plasticity of
sexual selection. We will study the plasticity and evolu-
tion of sex roles within and across populations with dif-
ferent environmental contexts. Our main study species
is the common goby (Pomatoschistus microps) with ex-
clusive paternal care, plastic sex-roles, and a mating
system that is highly aﬀected by its natural and social
context such as by nest availability, predation risk, wa-
ter temperature, operational sex-ratio, and mate com-32 EvolDir April 1, 2011
petition. Coastal areas of the Baltic Sea provide a nat-
ural gradient in terms of biotic, abiotic, and commu-
nity ecological factors. We will study how the envi-
ronmental, ecological, and demographic context aﬀects
populations and the mating system. We will conduct
experiments and population surveys to obtain relevant
data.
Requirements: Applicants should have a keen interest
in doing experimental work with small ﬁsh in the ﬁeld,
and in performing molecular analyses and behavioural
assays in the lab. The ideal candidates for this project
have a background in evolutionary ecology (or a related
ﬁeld), are highly motivated, creative and independent.
A Diplom or MSc degree (or equivalent) in Biology,
Ecology or a related discipline is required. The new
team will be part of Animal Evolutionary Ecology at
the Institute of Evolution and Ecology at the University
of Tuebingen. Regular visits of ﬁeld sites and extended
stays at research stations, mainly in Finland, Sweden
and Germany during the ﬁeld season (May-July) are
essential. The working language in Tuebingen and at
the ﬁeld stations is English. However, for everyday life
at the University and in Tuebingen (located in south-
ern Germany, close to Stuttgart), some knowledge of
German will be advantageous. Both positions are ﬁxed-
term for 4 years. The salary and beneﬁts are set accord-
ing to the German salary scale TV-L E13 (50%). In
case of equal quality of applicants, those with disabili-
ties will be preferred. The University of Tuebingen aims
to increase the representation of women in research and
teaching and therefore encourages female scientists to
apply. Please send your application by email as one sin-
gle pdf-ﬁle including 1) a letter of motivation, 2) CV,
3) name and email of at least two references who could
be contacted, 4) short description of current and future
research interests 5) a 1-page summary of your MSc
project or undergraduate work and research experience
to katja.heubel[at]helsinki.ﬁ.
Review of applications will start from 15 April 2011
onwards, but candidates will be considered until the
positions are ﬁlled. Start date: 1 August 2011 or on
appointment. For more information, feel free to con-
tact me!
Dr. Katja Heubel Advanced Fellow - Volkswagen-
Stiftung, University Lecturer, Department of Bio-
sciences, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Helsinki, Finland.
After 1.8.2011: University of Tuebingen, Department
of Biology, Institute for Evolution and Ecology, Animal
Evolutionary Ecology, Auf der Morgenstelle 28 D-72076
Tuebingen, Germany
links: http://www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.dehttp://www.eve.uni-tuebingen.de http://-
www.volkswagenstiftung.de/funding/challenges/-
evolutionary-biology.htm l?L=1 http://-
luoto.tvarminne.helsinki.ﬁ/english/index.htm
http://www.eseb2011.de/tuebingen.htm http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/people/katja.heubel/ –
Dr. Katja Heubel, Docent University Lecturer Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology Department of Biosciences,
PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1), FIN-00014 University of
Helsinki, FINLAND
phone +358 9 191 57806 fax -57694
oﬃce location: Biokeskus 3, room 6403
email: katja.heubel[at]helsinki.ﬁ http://-
www.helsinki.ﬁ/people/katja.heubel/ Katja Heubel
<katja.heubel@helsinki.ﬁ >
WesternKentuckyU
ConservationGenetics
MS ASSISTANTSHIP in the Biology Department at
Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, Ken-
tucky, USA.
I am seeking a motivated, qualiﬁed individual with ap-
propriate prior experience in the ﬁelds of genetics and
population biology to conduct independent research to-
wards the completion of a Master1s of Science Degree
while acting as one of two graduate teaching assistants
for our undergraduate Genetics course.
The successful candidate will conduct research in the
areas of conservation genetics or evolutionary ecology of
amphibians. Speciﬁc areas of research include 1) land-
scape genetics of tiger salamanders using microsatel-
lite loci to evaluate the distribution of genetic varia-
tion and identify the interaction between geographic
features and gene ﬂow; and 2) analysis of hybrid zones
using single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to de-
scribe genomic patterns of admixture and identify genes
of ecological interest. Desirable skills include a familiar-
ity with standard population genetic software (Struc-
ture, Fstat, Migrate, etc.) and experience with basic
laboratory techniques (PCR, sequencing, etc.). While
enrolled in the Master of Sciences in Biology program
at WKU students are expected to develop, implement,
and analyze independent research projects, prepare sci-
entiﬁc manuscripts, and present research at regional
and/or national meetings.
Teaching Assistant responsibilities for the GeneticsApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
course include: instruction of two 18-student labora-
tories once a week, preparation of laboratory materi-
als, grading and evaluation of student performance, and
weekly TA meetings with the course instructor. In-
struction responsibilities include a brief pre-lab lecture
describing concepts and protocols followed by hands-on
demonstration of appropriate techniques. Prior teach-
ing experience is not required. However, prior experi-
ence with basic molecular laboratory techniques such
as preparation of aqueous solutions, DNA extraction,
PCR, and gel electrophoresis is desirable.
A B.S. degree in biology, or closely related discipline
is required. Additional requirements include: compet-
itive GRE scores, prior independent research experi-
ence, demonstrated excellence in course work, excel-
lent written and oral communication skills, and ability
to work independently and as a team member. The
successful applicant receives two years of TA stipend,
a partial tuition waiver, and contributions towards
health insurance beneﬁts. For further details about
this position please contact Dr. Jarrett Johnson: jar-
rett.johnson@wku.edu
To apply please submit a letter of interest, CV, un-
oﬃcial transcripts and GRE scores, and contact infor-
mation for three references to jarrett.johnson@wku.edu.
Formal acceptance to the M.S program at Western Ken-
tucky University is required. Review of applications
will begin immediately (4/1/11) and will continue until
a suitable applicant is selected.
jarrett.johnson@wku.edu
WestVirginiaU MicrobialEvolution*Graduate Positions in Microbial Evolution*
Positions are available for Ph.D. students interested
in exploring evolutionary questions using genomic and
metagenomic data. Students will have the opportu-
nity to express their computational skills in data min-
ing of vast genomic datasets. Student research will
involve computing on high performance clusters and
on the cloud along with extensive training in program-
ming, data analysis, mathematical modeling, communi-
cation skills, and teaching. For more information about
the ongoing projects in the lab, please visit http://-
ecg.bio.wvu.edu . Summer support is available and this
would supplement the compensation received during
the academic year as a teaching assistant in the Depart-
ment of Biology at West Virginia University. Informa-
tion about the graduate program in biology, and how to
apply, is available at http://www.as.wvu.edu/biology/-
graduate/programs.htm . Although oﬃcial deadline for
applications was January 1, 2011, applications for these
positions will be considered on case-by-case basis for ei-
ther Fall 2011 or Spring 2012 admission.
A successful applicant should have: (1) a bachelor’s or
master’s degree in a relevant ﬁeld of study (biology,
bioinformatics, etc.); (2) a strong interest in molecu-
lar evolution and genomics; (3) a willingness to learn
and apply computational techniques to large genomic
datasets; (4) an interest in learning programming and
incorporating it into their research; and (5) strong writ-
ing skills and a commitment to the eﬀective communi-
cation of science to technical and non-technical audi-
ences.
To learn more about these opportunities, please con-
tact: Olga Zhaxybayeva Biology Department West Vir-
ginia University olgazh@mail.wvu.edu Phone: 304-293-
5201 x 31531
olgazh@mail.wvu.edu
Jobs
Antwerp LabTech Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Antwerp LabTech Conservation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
ArizonaStateU Undergrad ResAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35Barnard ColumbiaU TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 36
BiKF Germany PlantBiogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
DukeU Undergrad AntBacteriaSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . 3734 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Fisheries Seattle MolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
GeorgiaTech ResTechIV MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . 38
IowaStateU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Kadoorei 3 Conservation Botany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
NESCent GMOD support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
NESCent UserInterface WebApplicationDeveloper . 41
OregonStateU Nematode EvolutionaryGenomics . . . 82
Rennes DynamicsDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
StAndrews ResTech Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UColorado ScienceTeachingFellow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44UGuelph ProjectManager Biomonitoring . . . . . . . . . . 44
UKonstanz MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ULeicester EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UManchester EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UmeaU PaleoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Vienna GroupLeader PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Antwerp LabTech Conservation
The Centre for Research and Conservation (CRC) of
the Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp (RZSA -
KMDA) is searching for a Laboratory assistant (FTE
4/5 or 5/5)
The successful candidate shall be involved with applied
sciences and other relevant activities of the Centre for
Research and Conservation (CRC). The CRC is a re-
search institute, part of the RZSA - KMDA subsidised
by the Flemish Government. The institute is active
in all aspects of the RZSA - KMDA (Zoo Antwerp,
Wild animal park Planckendael, and Nature reserve De
Zegge). The CRC also runs a number of in-situ con-
servation projects in Cameroon and Brazil, and is a
research partner in other projects with an in-situ com-
ponent. Scientiﬁc research is an integral component of
the RZSA - KMDA mission statement and the activities
of the CRC directly link to the societies objectives of
environment and nature protection as well as education
outreach.
The lab assistant shall become a member of the scien-
tiﬁc team and will be expected to work in the DNA
lab of the RZSA - KMDA. This person must have a
thorough theoretical knowledge and essential minimum
practical experience with DNA-isolation, PCR and cap-
illary sequencing.
Job description:
. Technical - DNA isolation (hairs, blood, feath-
ers,faeces) using commercial kits, and traditional tech-
nologies (chelex, phenol- chloroform etc) - Use of re-
striction enzymes - Marker and primer development
(MtDNA, microsatellite, SNP) - PCR - including op-
timisation - Gel electrophoresis - Very good knowledge
of using an ABI sequencer - for sequencing and geno-
typing including software analysis. - Data managementand dissemination to research partners. - Very well de-
veloped organisation and time management skills - Very
well developed ability to manage multiple projects ac-
cording to established timelines.
. General: - Laboratory and inventory management in-
cluding order placement. - Contributing to writing the
method sections of peer-reviewed publications - Exisit-
ing experience with next-generation sequencing tech-
nologies is an advantage
Essential requirements: - Interest in applied zoological
science; - Diploma of a relevant training; - Practical
experience as detailed above; - Eager to learn (apply
new methods); - Computer skills (Word, Excel, Pow-
erPoint); experience in (genetic) data analyses - Enter-
prising, self-acting, independent, eﬃcient - Have a good
knowledge of Dutch and English; - Be able to work in-
dependently but in a good collaboration with your col-
leagues; experience in in guiding students - Easy going
and social
You’ll report to the head of veterinary medicine and
conservation biology.
Salary is determined by the RZSA under the classiﬁca-
tion of: Laboratory Technician.
The vacancy is immediately available. We oﬀer a part-
time (4/5) or a full time contract for an initial period
of 1 year (trial period of 6 months) with a deﬁnite pos-
sibility of extension for an indeﬁnite period.
You can respond to this vacancy by sending your let-
ter of application, CV and list of publications to the
address below. Explain in the letter why you are in-
terested in this vacancy and your motivation to be in-
volved in lab research at a zoo, a description of skills
and qualities you’ll bring to the position, and how you
meet the criteria above.
Please send your written application before April
26 to: Greta Thewis, Human Resources Konin-
klijke Maatschappij voor Dierkunde van Antwerpen
Koningin Astridplein 26 2018 Antwerpen, Belgi¨ e
Greta.Thewis@zooantwerpen.beApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
For more information you can also contact
Peter Galbusera (peter.galbusera@kmda.org;
telephone 03 202 4551). On the CRC
website ( http://www.onderzoekindezoo.be/ )
http://www.zooresearch.be/?lang=NL
Peter Galbusera <Peter.Galbusera@kmda.org >
Antwerp LabTech Conservation 2
The Centre for Research and Conservation (CRC) of
the Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp (RZSA -
KMDA) is searching for a Laboratory assistant (FTE
4/5 or 5/5)
The successful candidate shall be involved with applied
sciences and other relevant activities of the Centre for
Research and Conservation (CRC). The CRC is a re-
search institute, part of the RZSA - KMDA subsidised
by the Flemish Government. The institute is active
in all aspects of the RZSA - KMDA (Zoo Antwerp,
Wild animal park Planckendael, and Nature reserve De
Zegge). The CRC also runs a number of in-situ con-
servation projects in Cameroon and Brazil, and is a
research partner in other projects with an in-situ com-
ponent. Scientiﬁc research is an integral component of
the RZSA - KMDA mission statement and the activities
of the CRC directly link to the societies objectives of
environment and nature protection as well as education
outreach.
The lab assistant shall become a member of the scien-
tiﬁc team and will be expected to work in the DNA
lab of the RZSA - KMDA. This person must have a
thorough theoretical knowledge and essential minimum
practical experience with DNA-isolation, PCR and cap-
illary sequencing.
Job description:
. Technical - DNA isolation (hairs, blood, feath-
ers,faeces) using commercial kits, and traditional tech-
nologies (chelex, phenol- chloroform etc) - Use of re-
striction enzymes - Marker and primer development
(MtDNA, microsatellite, SNP) - PCR - including op-
timisation - Gel electrophoresis - Very good knowledge
of using an ABI sequencer - for sequencing and geno-
typing including software analysis. - Data management
and dissemination to research partners. - Very well de-
veloped organisation and time management skills - Very
well developed ability to manage multiple projects ac-
cording to established timelines.. General: - Laboratory and inventory management in-
cluding order placement. - Contributing to writing the
method sections of peer-reviewed publications - Exisit-
ing experience with next-generation sequencing tech-
nologies is an advantage
Essential requirements: - Interest in applied zoological
science; - Diploma of a relevant training; - Practical
experience as detailed above; - Eager to learn (apply
new methods); - Computer skills (Word, Excel, Pow-
erPoint); experience in (genetic) data analyses - Enter-
prising, self-acting, independent, eﬃcient - Have a good
knowledge of Dutch and English; - Be able to work in-
dependently but in a good collaboration with your col-
leagues; experience in in guiding students - Easy going
and social
You’ll report to the head of veterinary medicine and
conservation biology.
Salary is determined by the RZSA under the classiﬁca-
tion of: Laboratory Technician.
The vacancy is immediately available. We oﬀer a part-
time (4/5) or a full time contract for an initial period
of 1 year (trial period of 6 months) with a deﬁnite pos-
sibility of extension for an indeﬁnite period.
You can respond to this vacancy by sending your let-
ter of application, CV and list of publications to the
address below. Explain in the letter why you are in-
terested in this vacancy and your motivation to be in-
volved in lab research at a zoo, a description of skills
and qualities you’ll bring to the position, and how you
meet the criteria above.
Please send your written application before April
26 to: Tim De Backer, Human Resources Konin-
klijke Maatschappij voor Dierkunde van Antwerpen
Koningin Astridplein 26 2018 Antwerpen, Belgi¨ e
Tim.Debacker@kmda.org
For more information you can also contact
Peter Galbusera (peter.galbusera@kmda.org;
telephone 03 202 4551). On the CRC
website ( http://www.onderzoekindezoo.be/ )
http://www.zooresearch.be/?lang=NL
Peter Galbusera <Peter.Galbusera@kmda.org >
ArizonaStateU Undergrad ResAssist
Seeking Undergraduate Research Assistant for Study of
Avian Coloration and Sexual Signaling36 EvolDir April 1, 2011
We are seeking a highly motivated and qualiﬁed un-
dergraduate to participate in a Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) opportunity, funded by the
National Science Foundation, to study coloration and
sexual signaling in birds. The research experience will
involve up to 10 weeks of full-time work during the sum-
mer of 2011 (approx. June-August) at Arizona State
University in Tempe, AZ. The REU student will work
closely with Professor Kevin McGraw and Dr. Mat Gi-
radeau (post-doctoral associate) on this project. The
program includes a weekly stipend, and some travel
funds may be available to help defray the cost of airfare
to and from Arizona.
The main research project will center on the rela-
tionships between dietary pigment access, oxidative
stress, immunocompetence, and ornamental plumage
coloration in house ﬁnches (Carpodacus mexicanus).
The student will gain hands-on experience working with
birds and will utilize a suite of biochemical, immuno-
logical, nutritional, and color- analysis techniques in
the lab. In addition, the student will be involved in
data entry, analysis, and interpretation. The student
may also develop an independent project that dovetails
with the main goals of the funded research.
We seek undergraduate students with a background in
biology and chemistry and an interest in ecological, evo-
lutionary, physiological, genetic, and/or immunological
research. Preference will be given to students planning
to attend graduate school in animal behavior or a re-
lated ﬁeld. Women and ethic minority students are
especially encouraged to apply.
Interested students should submit the following appli-
cation materials electronically (as attachments, prefer-
ably in a single PDF) to kevin.mcgraw@asu.edu by 25
March 2011:
i) curriculum vitae
ii) grades (unoﬃcial transcripts are ﬁne) and a list of
relevant courses
iii) names and contact details for three references
iv) a cover letter that describes any previous research
and a brief statement explaining your interest in ob-
taining research experience in these areas
Kevin McGraw <Kevin.McGraw@asu.edu >
Barnard ColumbiaU
TeachingEvolution*Term Assistant Professor and Adjunct(s) - Academic
Year Aug 2011- May 2012
The Department of Biological Sciences at Barnard Col-
lege, Columbia University, seeks a full-time Term Assis-
tant Professor to teach ﬁve courses (one-year appoint-
ment, beginning August 2011). It also seeks one or
more adjuncts (rank open) to teaching one or several
courses.
Those hired will teach some combination of the follow-
ing courses: Evolution, Ecology, Genomics & Bioinfor-
matics, and Vertebrate (or Invertebrate) Biology; and
Lab in Genetics, Lab in Ecology, and Lab in Cell Bi-
ology. Applicants should specify which position(s) and
courses they seek. A Ph.D. and teaching experience
are required. Applicants should send curriculum vitae,
teaching statements, and three letters of recommenda-
tion to: biologyjob@barnard.edu. Review of applica-
tions will begin 15 April 2011. Barnard College is an
Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and members of
under-represented minorities are encouraged to apply.
Hilary Callahan Associate Professor, Associate Chair
Department of Biological Sciences Barnard College,
Columbia University 3009 Broadway New York, NY
10027 212-854-5405
*< http://www.imdb.com/name/nm3322957/-
>*Brendan:You can’t ﬁnd out everything from books,
you know. Aidan: I think I read that once. (from
*Secret of Kells*)
HILARY CALLAHAN <hcallaha@barnard.edu >
BiKF Germany PlantBiogeography
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-F)
is a new interdisciplinary institute with the mission to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change on the
organism level. It has been founded by the Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and other partners. The
Centre is funded by the Federal State of Hesse through
its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Eco-
nomic Excellence (LOEWE). It provides a new, dy-
namic research environment that integrates a variety of
disciplines from both natural and social sciences. The
Project Area A “Evolution and Climate” invites appli-
cations for the position of a
Postdoctoral Researcher Plant Biogeogra-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
phy/Molecular Clocks [Ref. #A29b]
The Department of Systematics, Evolution and Climate
Change, lead by Prof. Alexandra N. Muellner ( http://-
www.bik-f.de/root/index.php?page id=262 ), is seeking
a botanist with a research focus on plant evolution and
historical biogeography. The successful applicant is ex-
pected to develop an extramurally funded research pro-
gram, as well as collaborating with other staﬀ members.
The position entails basic teaching obligations.
Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in Botany or in another
relevant subject and have a solid publication record.
Preference will be given to applicants with skills in at
least one of the following areas: historical biogeography,
molecular clocks, ecological phylogenetics, evolutionary
ecology. Competence in general biostatistical methods
and knowledge of the Central European ﬂora are an
advantage. Excellent written and oral communication
skills in English and the interest in joining a multidis-
ciplinary team are required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13). The Research Centre
BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed
severely handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence. The contract shall start as soon as possible and
will initially be restricted to three years. The duty
station will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fUEr Natur-
forschung. Please send your application by e-mail at-
tachment (pdf), mentioning the reference of this po-
sition (#A29b) and including a letter outlining your
suitability for the position, a detailed CV, contact de-
tails of 2 referees and a copy of your PhD certiﬁcate
before 10 March 2011 to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mos-
brugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Cli-
mate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service and
Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de, and cc to alexan-
dra.muellner@senckenberg.de. For scientiﬁc enquiries
please write to Prof. Dr. Alexandra N. Muellner (e-
mail: alexandra.muellner@senckenberg.de).
Kind Regards,
Nicole Kurth Biodiversity and Climate Resarch Centre
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >DukeU Undergrad
AntBacteriaSymbiosis
Exploring an Ant-Bacterial Symbiosis Research Experi-
ence for Undergraduate (REU) opportunity Duke, sum-
mer 2011
To apply: Please send the items listed at the end to
j.wernegreen@duke.edu **before March 17**.
Summary: We seek a highly-motivated undergraduate
to join our lab this summer to study symbiotic rela-
tionships between ants and microbes. Working with
Jen Wernegreen’s lab at Duke University, the student
will explore the ecology and evolution of an obligate
mutualism between bacteria and ants of the tribe Cam-
ponotini.
Applicants should have a strong interest in ecology and
evolution, symbiosis, microbiology, and/or insect phys-
iology, some exposure to molecular biology, and possess
a genuine drive to perform basic research. The project
will combine local ﬁeldwork around the Durham area,
rearing of ants in the lab, as well as molecular biology
approaches to quantify symbiont densities and gene ex-
pression patterns. The 10-week position will include a
summer stipend, and if needed, travel and housing on
Duke campus.
Eligibility: REU positions are available to U.S. citizens
or Permanent Residents who are currently enrolled as
undergraduates at U.S. colleges or universities. Fresh-
men, sophomores, and juniors are eligible to apply.
(NSF stipulates that graduating seniors are not eligi-
ble for REU positions.)
Additional information: Please see http://-
fds.duke.edu/db/Nicholas/esp/faculty/jjw27 for
more information about the lab and publications
relating to the project. Please contact Jen Wernegreen
(j.wernegreen@duke.edu) with any questions about the
position or project possibilities.
To apply: Please email the items below to
j.wernegreen@duke.edu before March 17. - A letter de-
scribing your interest in this fellowship, and your prior
research experience(s) if any. - CV - Names and phone
numbers of two references. - Transcript from under-
graduate work so far. (Unoﬃcial copy is ﬁne.)
Jennifer Wernegreen <j.wernegreen@duke.edu >38 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Fisheries Seattle MolGenetics
Announcement for a permanent federal position avail-
able soon:
Research Molecular Geneticist, Genetics & Evolution
Program, Conservation Biology Division, NOAA Fish-
eries, NWFSC, Seattle WA. Scientists in the Conser-
vation Biology Division’s Genetics and Evolution Pro-
gram conduct research to support NOAA’s mission of
conservation and management of marine and anadro-
mous organisms. Research activities include: assessing
genetic and phenotypic variation to support conserva-
tion and recovery of listed species; analyzing compo-
sition of mixed ﬁshery stocks (Genetic Stock Identi-
ﬁcation, or GSI); estimating reproductive success in
wild or naturally spawning populations; characteriz-
ing components of adaptive evolution; determining the
evolutionary consequences of inbreeding within and in-
terbreeding among distinct populations; exploring how
life histories respond to selection such as size-selective
exploitation; and evaluating consequences of hatchery
domestication and climate change. Current research
projects include study sites from California to Alaska
involving diverse marine organisms such as salmon and
steelhead, killer whales, Paciﬁc herring, hake, rockﬁsh,
eulachon, tunicates, abalone, corals and sponges. Pri-
mary activities involve population genetics, genomics,
and quantitative genetics, as well as on providing ge-
netic analysis of forensic evidence in support of NMFS
Oﬃce of Law Enforcement activities.
The Genetics & Evolution Program is seeking a broadly
trained molecular geneticist to assist with analysis of
genetic data. The position will involve development of
a research program that integrates molecular genetic
and genomic approaches to characterize the amount,
distribution, and functional signiﬁcance of genetic vari-
ation within and among natural populations. This
program will involve analytical methods from popu-
lation genetics, molecular and gene expression tech-
niques, dissection and mapping of genome regions, and
identiﬁcation of candidate genes. The incumbent is
expected to be familiar with statistical approaches to
analyze genomic variability. The incumbent will work
in a broadly interdisciplinary environment with geneti-
cists, ﬁshery biologists, ecologists and other scientists.
A strong theoretical background is required, as is the
demonstrated ability to collaborate with experimental-
ists and resource managers on practical managementand conservation issues. Expertise in analysis of DNA
sequence data, comparative genomic analysis, and pop-
ulation genetics is essential. Documented experience
with the development and dissemination of genomic
analysis is also required. Training and work experi-
ence in population genetics and genomic identiﬁcation
of functionally important genes is highly desirable. Ex-
amples of relevant experience include, but are not lim-
ited to, working with marker-based genotyping, includ-
ing a diversity of array-based SNP genotyping plat-
forms; reduced-representation sequencing using next-
generation sequencing technology; and whole-genome
sequencing. Familiarity with DNA microsatellite vari-
ation in marine and anadromous ﬁshes is valuable, as
is an understanding of current methods in use in bioin-
formatics. The position will open on March 18 and
close on March 28, 2011. Applicants must U.S. citizens
and be available to travel to Seattle between April 1-14
for interviews. Applicants must apply online through
USAJOBS ( http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/ ); the an-
nouncement numbers are NMFS-NWC-2011-0041 for
federal applicants and NMFS-NWC-2011-0042 for ex-
ternal applicants.
Jeﬀ.Hard@noaa.gov
GeorgiaTech ResTechIV
MicrobialGenomics
Research Technician in Marine Microbial Genomics
A Research Technician IV position is available in Frank
Stewart¿s lab in the School of Biology at Georgia
Tech. The Stewart lab studies the evolution, ecol-
ogy, and physiology of marine microorganisms using
the tools of genomics. Primary topics include metage-
nomic and metatranscriptomic analysis of microbial
metabolism and taxonomy, and molecular analysis of
bacteria-eukaryote symbioses. The Research Techni-
cian will work collaboratively with the PI and other lab
members to manage the lab, perform ﬁeld and bench-
top research, and synthesize results for publication.
Responsibilities:
* Conducting experiments to support multiple research
projects. Speciﬁc duties may include: ﬁeld-based sam-
ple collection, DNA/RNA extraction and puriﬁcation,
PCR and RT-PCR, genetic manipulation of bacterial
genomes, in situ hybridization, ﬂuorescence microscopy,
pulsed ﬁeld gel electrophoresis, preparation of DNA
libraries for high throughput sequencing analysis. *April 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
Troubleshooting/optimizing protocols and developing
new methods. * Managing data and running scripts
via a command-line interface. * Assisting in draft-
ing research papers and grant proposals. * Performing
or overseeing routine lab management tasks, including
cleaning/autoclaving, preparing media, ordering sup-
plies and interacting with vendors, maintaining instru-
mentation, implementing laboratory safety standards.
* Supervising and training lower-level technical and re-
search personnel, including graduate and undergradu-
ate students.
Qualiﬁcations:
Bachelor’s Degree in Biology, Molecular Biology, Bio-
chemistry or a related discipline AND three years of rel-
evant research experience; OR, ﬁve years of relevant re-
search experience; OR, Any equivalent combination of
experience, training and/or education. Preferred qual-
iﬁcations include a Master’s Degree.
Additional Qualiﬁcations:
* Laboratory experience required. * Proven expertise
in molecular biology and microbiological techniques. *
Good oral and written communication skills and excel-
lent organizational skills. * Ability to work both inde-
pendently and collaboratively. * Experience in bioin-
formatics or programming is highly preferred. * Expe-
rience with high throughput DNA sequencing is highly
preferred.
The successful applicant will be enthusiastic, motivated
by experimental and analytical challenges, and skilled
in a diverse range of laboratory techniques. Salary
will be commensurate with experience and will in-
clude fringe beneﬁts. Additional information about
the lab can be found at www.fjstewart.org . Infor-
mal inquiries about the position can be emailed to
Frank Stewart (frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu) and
should include ’Research technician IV’ in the sub-
ject line. Applications should be submitted through
the Georgia Tech Oﬃce of Human Resources ( http:/-
/careers.gatech.edu/career-paths ) in response to posi-
tion number 0164417. Applicants should include a
cover letter (describing your interest in the position,
work experience, and availability), CV, and contact in-
formation (name, email, phone number) for at least
three references. Thank you for your interest we look
forward to hearing from you.
Frank J. Stewart, Ph.D. Assistant Professor School
of Biology Georgia Institute of Technology ES&T
building, oﬃce #1242 311 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA
30332-0230 oﬃce: 404-894-5819 www.fjstewart.org
frank.stewart@biology.gatech.eduIowaStateU Bioinformatics
The Oﬃce of Biotechnology at Iowa State University is
currently accepting applications for an Associate Sci-
entist that will lead bioinformatics support and lead-
ership in the ﬁeld of Next-generation sequence analysis
and will be expected to facilitate Next-generation se-
quence analysis by collaborating with faculty and scien-
tists from Iowa State University, and other institutions.
This position will also develop computational resources
that will be available to the Iowa State University re-
search community and to potential oﬀ-campus collab-
orators and customers; supervise and mentor postdoc-
toral scholars and graduate students with respect to se-
quence analysis; collaborate with Iowa State University
researchers, faculty, and staﬀ on proposals to granting
agencies; and actively apply for external funding. The
individual will be expected to publish results in scien-
tiﬁc journals and present them at national and interna-
tional meetings and conferences.
For details of the position and directions to ap-
ply, please see: www.iastatejobs.com/applicants/-
Central?quickFindy723 Questions can be di-
rected to James Reecy, Director of the Biotech-
nology Council (jreecy@iastate.edu) or Anne
Bronikowski, Ecology, Evolution & Organismal
Biology (abroniko@iastate.edu)
abroniko@iastate.edu
Kadoorei 3 Conservation Botany
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Senior Conservation Geneticist
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Senior Conservation or Population Geneticist posi-
tion at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden (KFBG) in
Hong Kong. The general remit of the post is to improve
the integration of genetic information into conserva-
tion programmes and to manage a Genetic Laboratory.
The successful candidate will study the eﬀect of habitat
fragmentation on the genetic diversity and the adapt-
ability of populations of South Chinese and Indochi-40 EvolDir April 1, 2011
nese plants at various geographical and temporal scales.
The obtained results will be used to develop a decision-
making framework for integrating genetic information
into conservation programmes. Key conservation ge-
netics concepts and research ﬁndings should be sum-
marised and communicated in user-friendly handbooks,
scientiﬁc publications and online resources for conser-
vation practitioners and conservation management.
Applicants should have a PhD in the ﬁeld of popula-
tion or conservation genetics. Strong communication
skills (written and oral), advanced knowledge of popu-
lation and statistical genetics, and computational skills
are required. Additional knowledge in genomics, anal-
ysis of high-throughput sequencing data and computer
programming (Perl/Python/R/) are a plus.
Daily duties will include managing the genetic labora-
tory and projects, supervising junior laboratory staﬀ as
well as analysing genetic samples and interpreting the
results.
Application Method Interested parties should send a
detailed CV, expected salary, and a short essay (de-
scribing relevant work experience and reasons for inter-
est in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
—–
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Botanist (Plant Identiﬁcation
and Records Oﬃcer)
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Botanist position at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic
Garden (KFBG) in Hong Kong. The general remit of
the post is to identify specimens collected at ﬁeld sur-
veys in South China and Indochina, assist in herbarium
management and to manage the specimen database.
The successful candidate will conduct ﬁeld work and
participate in survey projects in Hong Kong, South
China and Indochina, work on taxonomy and conser-
vation status assessment of plant genera, handling and
processing botanical information, conducting plant con-
servation research and providing capacity building.
Applicants should have a PhD in plant taxonomy, plant
biodiversity and/or plant conservation. Strong com-
munication skills (written and oral) and knowledge of
the local ﬂora are required. Additional knowledge in
herbarium management software, phylogenetics, GIS
and computer programming are a plus.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expectedsalary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
—–
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Botanist (Plant Ecology and
Forest Restoration)
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Botanist position at Kadoorie Farm and Botanic
Garden (KFBG) in Hong Kong. The general remit
of the post is to use the ﬁndings of research into the
ecology of plants to conduct forest restoration projects.
The successful candidate will conduct ﬁeld work and
participate in survey projects in Hong Kong, South
China and Indochina, map forest ecosystems using
ﬁeldmap technology, develop an understanding of the
life-cycle dynamics of plants to pinpoint which factors
are causing population declines, conduct projects to
understand biotic and abiotic habitat requirements of
plants and conduct forest enrichment and restoration
projects.
Applicants should have a PhD in plant ecology or for-
est restoration. Strong communication skills (written
and oral) and knowledge of the local ﬂora are required.
Additional knowledge in herbarium management soft-
ware, soil science, GIS and computer programming are
a plus.
Daily duties will include managing our native tree nurs-
ery and supervising work teams and junior staﬀ.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expected
salary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
NESCent GMOD support
Are you fascinated by genomics and bioinformatics?
Are you passionate about collaborative open-sourceApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
software? Do you enjoy teaching and working with sci-
entists?
The Generic Model Organism Database project
(GMOD) is a collection of open source software tools
for creating and managing biological, and particularly
genomic, databases. GMOD has a large, highly dis-
tributed, and dynamic community of software users and
developers.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has
an opening for a GMOD user support specialist, to
be based at the US National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center (NESCent, www.nescent.org ) in Durham, North
Carolina, while serving the international community of
GMOD users.
Job Description: The GMOD user support special-
ist will maintain online documentation; respond to
mailing list help requests; present tutorials; organize
short courses, conference sessions and other commu-
nity building activities; survey user needs, and recruit
members of the community to assist with these func-
tions. The incumbent will collaborate closely with the
GMOD Coordinator (Scott Cain, The Ontario Institute
for Cancer Research) and other distributed personnel.
Seehttp://gmod.org/wiki/GMOD Help Desk for more
background on the activities of the user support special-
ist. The salary range is $68,906 to $82,687, depending
on qualiﬁcations, with a comprehensive beneﬁts pack-
age.
Qualiﬁcations: Required qualiﬁcations include: excel-
lent written and verbal communication skills; team
orientation with strong interpersonal skills. Preferred
qualiﬁcations include: an MS or PhD in biology, com-
puter science or related ﬁeld; three or more years
of experience with web programming and relational
database management systems; three or more years of
experience with genome database administration or cu-
ration, preferably in a GMOD environment; at least one
year of experience with web content management, ide-
ally using MediaWiki; freedom to travel 5-15 weeks/yr.
To Apply: Please provide a cover letter and CV, includ-
ing contact information for three references, to Hilmar
Lapp, Assistant Director of Informatics, NESCent,
at hlapp@nescent.org, and submit materials through
http://bit.ly/h9l74r . For phone inquiries, please call
919.668.5288.
tjv@bio.unc.eduNESCent UserInterface
WebApplicationDeveloper
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) seeks a creative and enthusiastic individual to
design user interfaces and web applications for scien-
tiﬁc applications. The incumbent will work as part of a
small informatics team in close collaboration with do-
main scientists.
NESCent ( http://nescent.org ) is an NSF-funded center
dedicated to cross-disciplinary research in evolutionary
science. Our informatics team works closely with visit-
ing and resident scientists to support their custom soft-
ware and database development needs. All NESCent
software products are open-source, and the Center has a
number of initiatives to actively promote collaborative
development of community software resources ( http://-
informatics.nescent.org ). Above all, we are enthusiastic
about our work, about the mission of the Center, and
about the contribution of informatics to that mission.
Job description: The incumbent will design and develop
user interfaces and web applications for databases and
other software tools for sponsored scientists and staﬀ.
The job responsibilities include all stages of the software
development process, including requirements gathering,
design, implementation, release packaging and docu-
mentation, as part of a small team (typically 2-3 indi-
viduals) following project management best practices.
We expect the incumbent to present their work at con-
ferences and contribute to publications with scientiﬁc
collaborators; interact regularly with visiting and resi-
dent scientists, other members of the informatics team
and Center staﬀ; and generally serve as an expert re-
source for Center personnel. The position provides op-
portunities for professional development. Most infor-
matics staﬀ work at our Durham NC oﬃces, located
adjacent to Duke University, but we do support a wide
range of technologies for virtual communication with
oﬀ-site staﬀ and collaborators.
Required Qualiﬁcations: * Demonstrated success col-
laborating with clients on custom software solutions *
Experience with various stages of the software develop-
ment cycle * Expertise in development and testing of
user interface designs * Excellent communication skills,
both virtual and face-to-face
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: * M.S. or Ph.D. in Com-42 EvolDir April 1, 2011
puter Science, Bioinformatics or related ﬁeld * Demon-
strated interest in science, particularly biology * Ex-
pertise in dynamic and interactive web technologies
(JavaScript, CGI) * Expertise in rapid application de-
velopment and respective programming technologies
and languages (e.g., modern scripting languages and
web-application frameworks such as Python/Django,
Ruby/Ruby-on-Rails, and Perl/Catalyst). * Exper-
tise in graphic design * Expertise in data visualization
and/or scientiﬁc data integration * Expertise in soft-
ware usability design and assessment * Expertise in web
service (SOAP, REST, XML, JSON) and semantic web
technologies * Fluency in Java programming * Prior
experience in relational database programming (Post-
greSQL or MySQL) * Experience with open-source, and
collaborative, software development
How to apply: Please send cover letter, resume and
contact information for three references to Dr. Karen
Cranston, Training Coordinator and Bioinformatics
Project Manager (karen.cranston@nescent.org). Infor-
mal inquires or requests for additional information may
be directed to Dr. Cranston by email or phone (+1-919-
613-2275).
–
Karen Cranston Training Coordinator and Informatics
Project Manager nescent.org
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@nescent.org >
OregonStateU Nematode
EvolutionaryGenomics
The laboratory of Dee Denver at Oregon State Univer-
sity is searching for a Faculty Research Assistant (FRA)
or Postdoctoral Scholar; position available 06/11 to in-
vestigate evolutionary genomic processes using Illumina
high-throughput DNA sequence data. Experience in
computer programming required, speciﬁc knowledge in
Perl and R applications, Knowledge Unix/Linux oper-
ating systems preferred. BA/BS required for FRA ap-
plicants; PhD required for Postdoc applicants. Postdoc
applicants would be expected to pursue independent
funding before or during an initial one-year of support
on the PI?s grant funds. Include cover letter of appli-
cation, CV, and the contact information for three pro-
fessional references (email addresses preferred). For full
consideration apply by 4/15/11. OSU in an AA/EOE
employer.The Denver lab primarily studies genomic evolutionary
processes in nematodes. We study the evolution of both
mitochondrial and nuclear DNA in diverse interesting
nematode genera including Caenorhabditis (includes
the famous model C. elegans), Meloidogyne (plant par-
asites), Panagrolaimus (free living), Strongyloides (ani-
mal parasites) and Xiphinema (plant parasites). We are
currently funded by NIH and USDA. We take advan-
tage of the superb resources oﬀered by the OSU Center
for Genome Research & Biocomputing ? this facility
oﬀers Illumina/Solexa (new HiSeq2000 system in addi-
tion to the GAII) and Roche/454 sequencing.
Denver Lab website: http://-
denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/ For inquiries, contact
Dee Denver: denver@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Full job description and instructions for applying avail-
able at:
jobs.oregonstate.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindX186
–
Dee R. Denver Assistant Professor Department
of Zoology Oregon State University 3029 Cordley
Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 PH: 541-737-3698 FX:
541-737-0501 http://denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/
denvedee@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Rennes DynamicsDiversity
University of Rennes 1 will this year recruit a docent
(permanent position, 196 teaching hours per year) in
“Dynamics of diversity and the functional properties
of communities”. Please ﬁnd the job description be-
low. It is in French, because teaching is in French. You
shouldn’t apply if you cannot make yourself understood
in French. And you do not have the right to apply if
you do not have the French formal “Qualiﬁcation” i.e.
got your CV evaluated by a national committee months
ago already.
Except of this - international applications are welcome.
Funnily, French universities do not pay travel costs for
candidates, but possibly we ﬁnd solutions of needed.
Starting salary is 1800 Euros net and can increase to
3200 Euros. Starting salaries are OK to feed a family of
three, and childcare is excellent and for free in France.
More about Ecobio at http://ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/-
news.php - in a nutshell, there are about 60 perma-
nent researchers in all ﬁelds of Ecology and Evolution,April 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
the unit was ranked “A” in the last evaluation and the
strong points of the unit are among others in Com-
munity Ecology / Diversiﬁcation / Invasion biology /
Environmental, Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics
/ Landscape Ecology / Ecology of Stress / Ecological
Engineering.
Deadline is 25.3., 16.00 and should be done
online at https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/candidats.html . Best regards
Andreas Prinzing
Maˆ ıtre de Conf´ erences /lessmuchDynamique de la diversit´ e et
propri´ et´ es fonctionnelles des communaut´ es /greatermuch
Enseignement
Le Maˆ ıtre de conf´ erences recrut´ e assurera des enseigne-
ments en ´ ecologie g´ en´ erale, biog´ eographie, ´ ecologie des
communaut´ es v´ eg´ etale, en particulier au niveau L1 ` a
L3. Ces enseignements seront compl´ et´ es par des sorties
et stages de terrain. Il devra ´ egalement participer ` a
l’encadrement des ´ etudiants dans le cadre des stages de
M1 et M2, notamment en ce qui concerne les formations
professionnelles.
Recherche
Ce proﬁl de recherche rel` eve du champ th´ ematique de
l’´ ecologie des communaut´ es, et s’inscrit dans une ap-
proche fonctionnelle et ´ evolutive de la dynamique de la
diversit´ e v´ eg´ etale.
Cet angle d’approche doit permettre d’identiﬁer les con-
traintes ´ ecologiques qui pilotent les r` egles d’assemblage
des esp` eces, en tenant compte des contraintes his-
toriques, phylog´ en´ etiques.
Les propri´ et´ es fonctionnelles analys´ ees en lien avec la
structure et diversit´ e des communaut´ es v´ eg´ etales pour-
ront ˆ etre relatives ` a la capacit´ e de r´ eponse aux change-
ments (r´ esistance, r´ esilience) et aux services rendus
(cf. cycle de la mati` ere et des nutriments, qualit´ e
agronomique et patrimoniale, ..).
Une des hypoth` eses de travail propos´ ees pour com-
prendre les variations de diversit´ e sp´ eciﬁque, ´ evolutive
et fonctionnelle avec les facteurs environnementaux
reposent sur les contrastes de traits biologiques et
de strat´ egies de vie. Consid´ erer les interactions en-
tre esp` eces ou groupes fonctionnels comme ´ el´ ement
d´ eterminant des patrons de diversit´ e constitue une sec-
onde hypoth` ese de travail que souhaite voir d´ evelopper
l’´ equipe d’accueil.
Une cl´ e d’analyse essentielle des r` egles d’assemblages
et de r´ eponses des communaut´ es aux facteurs envi-
ronnementaux r´ eside dans la prise en compte de la
variabilit´ e spatio-temporelle des assemblages et de leurfonctionnement. Les travaux d´ evelopp´ es devront en
cons´ equence prendre en compte le contexte th´ eorique
li´ e aux m´ eta-communaut´ es et viendront ainsi ren-
forcer les travaux en cours dans l’´ equipe quant aux
compl´ ementarit´ es fonctionnelles entre habitats.
Le maˆ ıtre de conf´ erence recrut´ e devra situer ses travaux
dans le cadre des probl´ ematiques de recherche de l
´ equipe Structure et Dynamique de la Diversit´ e de l
UMR 6553 ECOBIO. Cette ´ equipe s attache ` a i) met-
tre en ´ evidence les patrons, processus et m´ ecanismes
´ ecologiques et ´ evolutifs impliqu´ es dans la r´ eponse des
communaut´ es et des populations aux contraintes envi-
ronnementales et ii) appr´ ecier les cons´ equences induites
par les activit´ es humaines ou contraintes naturelles sur
les propri´ et´ es ´ ecosyst´ emiques port´ ees par les commu-
naut´ es. Les variables de for¸ cage anthropiques prises en
compte sont notamment les modalit´ es de gestion des
esp` eces et des espaces ; par suite, les r´ esultats produits
dans l ´ equipe pr´ esentent une interface importante dans
le cadre de la gestion des habitats, de la biologie de la
conservation et de l ´ ecologie de la restauration.
contactes : gabrielle.thiebaut@univ-rennes1.fr (en-
seignement) et jean-sebastien.pierre@univ-rennes1.fr
(recherche)
see also
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
StAndrews ResTech Drosophila
Research Technician; Testing genetic models of same-
sex sexual behaviour in Drosophila
Nathan Bailey and Mike Ritchie are seeking to ap-
point a Research Technician to provide research sup-
port in the Centre for Evolution, Genes and Genomics
within the School of Biology at the University of St
Andrews, Scotland. You will be required to organize,
maintain and screen lines of the fruit ﬂy Drosophila
melanogaster, perform behavioural observations, assist
with performing crosses and collect and maintain data
to support the project. You should have a degree in a
relevant biological ﬁeld, and prior experience working
with Drosophila melanogaster and/or a background in
evolutionary biology or behavioural ecology is highly44 EvolDir April 1, 2011
desirable.
The aim of this project is to empirically test evolution-
ary explanations for the persistence of same-sex sexual
behaviour in animals.
Duration: 18 months. Start Date: 1st June 2011 or by
negotiation.
Informal enquiries can be made to Nathan Bai-
ley nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk See also http://-
www.ﬂexiblephenotype.org/ http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ritchielab/ Further details and
the application materials are available at: https://-
www.vacancies.st-andrews.ac.uk/welcome.aspx , Ref
No. CD7979
Clunky direct link https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ViewVacancy.aspx?enc=-
3DmEgrBL4XQK0+ld8aNkwYmM4/-
ymoCsgWgpnbrKtZIdoFpKHWTaiheGYCrYRkt+VynBCVXlEmisA/-
tolMY4szOogPLEASE NOTE THAT ALL APPLI-
CATIONS MUST BE MADE THROUGH THE
UNIVERSITY, NOT TO THE PIs
Mike Ritchie Acting Head School of Biology Dyers Brae
House University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife Scot-
land KY16 9TH
Phone: 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495 Fax: 0 (44 out-
side UK) 1334 463366
Websites: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/ritchielab/
http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/supplemental/ritchie/-
papers.aspx mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk
UColorado ScienceTeachingFellow
Science Teaching Fellow
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
(EBIO), at the University of Colorado, Boulder, invites
applicants for the position of Science Teaching Fellow
to assist with enhancing teaching and learning in our
undergraduate courses. Candidates should hold a doc-
toral degree in Ecology or Evolutionary Biology or a
related ﬁeld and have excellent organizational and in-
terpersonal communication skills. However, their pri-
mary interest and at least some experience should be in
science education. The successful candidate will work
within the department and with other education spe-
cialists. Speciﬁc responsibilities will include working
with EBIO faculty who teach our core undergraduate
courses (Ecology, Genetics and Evolution) to specify anintegrated set of speciﬁc learning goals for these courses;
develop strategies for including more active learning;
develop and validate assessments of student learning
gains; and participate in the development of techniques,
materials and practices for improving student learning
in these courses.
The salary for this 1-year renewable (up to three
years) appointment will be competitive and commen-
surate with experience. Applicants should submit a
single pdf containing their CV, a statement of teach-
ing philosophy, and the names and email addresses
of three individuals who can serve as references to
am@colorado.edu. To ensure full consideration, appli-
cations must be received by April 15, 2011.
The University of Colorado at Boulder is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action Institution committed to
cultural diversity and compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act. Women and minorities encour-
aged to apply. We invite applications from qualiﬁed
candidates who share our commitment to diversity. The
University of Colorado conducts background checks on
all ﬁnal applicants being considered for employment.
Andrew Martin Dept of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Colorado Boulder, CO 80309
Andrew Martin <Andrew.Martin-1@Colorado.EDU >
UGuelph ProjectManager
Biomonitoring
Project Manager, Postdoc and Graduate Student po-
sitions available at Biodiversity Institute of Ontario,
University of Guelph
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario based at University
of Guelph, Canada, is leading a large-scale project in
the use of Next Generation Sequencing for biodiversity
analysis from various environmental samples. We are
currently seeking applications for various positions:
1. Project Manager (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario), starting May-June 2011. Qualiﬁcations: MSc
or PhD in biology (or computer science), minimum
2 years of experience in large-scale project manage-
ment and budgeting (accounting), articulate and well-
organized. Being computer/web savvy is an asset as
the project manager will be in charge of updating
the project website. We would also consider excep-
tional candidates who would like to pursue an alter-
native career path in science management after theirApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
PhD/postdoc. Duration: 3 years (initial contract for
one year).
2. Postdoctoral Fellow (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario, Hajibabaei group), starting July-September
2011. PhD in molecular evolution, phylogenetics,
molecular ecology, population genetics, bioinformatics
or related ﬁelds. Excellent theoretical knowledge and
experience in comparative sequence data analysis for
biodiversity, evolutionary or ecological analysis, prefer-
ably using NGS data. Experience in using Linux and
Python (or similar scripting languages) and knowledge
of R would be desirable. Duration: 3 years (initial con-
tract for one year).
3. GIS Software Developer (based at Dalhousie Univer-
sity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Beiko group), starting May-
June 2011. BSc or MSc in Computer Science, Bioin-
formatics or a related ﬁeld. The scope of the project
would also permit an applicant with a PhD to carry
out research in the context of a postdoctoral position.
Must be proﬁcient in Python and C++, and ideally ex-
perienced in OpenGL and graphical software develop-
ment. Experience with previous development projects
is essential. Duration: 3 years (initial contract for one
year).
4. Postdoctoral Fellow (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario, Hajibabaei group), starting June-Sept, 2011.
PhD in biological sciences preferably in molecular ecol-
ogy, phylogenetics or related ﬁelds with expertise in
molecular method development/optimization. Expe-
rience in soil biodiversity/ecology is highly desirable.
Duration: 2 years (initial contract for one year).
5. Graduate Student positions (MSc/PhD, 3 positions)
based at University of Guelph, Department of Integra-
tive Biology (2 positions) and Dalhousie University, De-
partment of Biology (1 position). These positions in-
volve the use of NGS data to address evolutionary and
ecological questions in arthropod, plant and soil bio-
diversity. Graduate students will be supervised jointly
by members of Biomonitoring 2.0 project and will gain
insights in using NGS genomics approaches as well as
bioinformatics tools to develop and explore their own
hypotheses in ecology and evolutionary biology.
6. MSc Student position at the University of New
Brunswick, Canadian Rivers Institute / Aurora Re-
search Institute. This position will examine the use
and application of Biomonitoring 2.0 techniques by lo-
cal communities in Canada’s North.
For each position, please submit your CV (includ-
ing names and contact information of 3 references)
and a cover letter to Dr. Mehrdad Hajibabaei (mha-
jibab@uoguelph.ca). Please indicate the title of the po-sition you are applying for in the subject line of your
email. We will start reviewing the applications on April
15, 2011.
Mehrdad Hajibabaei, PhD Assistant Professor Bio-
diversity Institute of Ontario & Integrative Biology
University of Guelph Guelph, ON N1G 2W1 Canada
Phone: 519-824-4120 x52487 Fax: 519-824-5703
Email: mhajibab@uoguelph.ca www.ibarcode.org/-
hajibabaei www.biodiversity.ca www.dnabarcoding.ca
<http://www.dnabarcoding.ca/ >
Mehrdad Hajibabaei <mhajibab@uoguelph.ca >
UKonstanz MolecularEvolution
UNIVERSITY OF KONSTANZ/GERMANY
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR/JUNIOR GROUP
LEADER IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY (molecu-
lar evolution/comparative genomics or devo-evo)
A position as “Assistant Professor” (German govern-
ment salary scale TV-L 13 or possibly Akademischer
Rat) in the Department of Biology at the University of
Konstanz in Germany is available from May 2011 on.
The person we are looking for should work in the
ﬁelds of either molecular evolution, comparative ge-
nomics, and/or the evolution of developmental mecha-
nisms. The position is for a Ph.D. biologist, ideally with
prior postdoc experience in bioinformatics, or molecu-
lar and developmental biology. A total of three research
groups, two of which are headed by Junior Group Lead-
ers each representing their particular subdisciplines of
evolutionary biology, make up the evolutionary biology
group (Lehrstuhl Evolutionsbiologie) in the Depart-
ment of Biology ( http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?section=10 ).
The taxonomic emphasis is open, however, work on
ﬁshes, particularly on cichlid or zebraﬁsh model sys-
tems is desirable. Most of the ongoing evolution-
ary research in Konstanz deals with comparative de-
velopmental and molecular evolutionary/genomic as-
pects of the origin of adaptation and speciation in
cichlid ﬁsh adaptive radiations. For publications
of the lab see: http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?section’ Space in a modern an-
imal care facility is available and the exclusive help
of a part-time technician will be available to this new
group. Excellent opportunities are available in terms
of space, equipment, departmental facilities and an-46 EvolDir April 1, 2011
nual ﬁnancial support for research expenses. The
lab has state-of- the-art facilities for molecular and
developmental biology, including Illumina and Roche
FLX Titanium next-generation sequencers at the Ge-
nomics Center Konstanz ( http://cms.uni-konstanz.de/-
en/genomics-center/ ).
The University of Konstanz and the Department of Bi-
ology are among the most highly ranked institutions
in Germany and provide a lively and academically out-
standing research environment. Konstanz is a lovely
historic town located on Lake Constance on the border
to Switzerland.
Appointments are initially for two to three years, and
are renewable for up to six and potentially even ten
years, with an annual gross salary (depending on prior
experience) of about 58,800 Euros (about 73.000 US$).
Habilitation is possible, and a modest amount of teach-
ing (English or German) is required.
Additional information can be obtained from
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de, (tel.+49 7531 884163,
fax + 49 7531 883018) or from our www page.
http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de . Ap-
plications including a (short 2-3 page) statement
of research interests, a full CV, and names and
email addresses of 2-3 referees, should be emailed to
axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de. Applications should be
received before March 30, 2011. The University of Kon-
stanz is an equal opportunity employer.
Axel Meyer <axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
ULeicester EvolutionBehaviour
Chair/Reader in the Neurobiology of Behaviour
Department of Biology
College of Medicine, Biological Sciences and Psychology
Ref: MBP00320
At Leicester we’re going places. Ranked in the top 15
universities in Britain our aim is to climb further. A
commitment to high quality fused with an inclusive aca-
demic culture is our hallmark and led the Times Higher
Education to describe us as “elite without being elitist”.
You will be an outstanding researcher with an interna-
tional reputation in the causal mechanisms underlying
animal behaviour, able to strengthen and expand our
multi-disciplinary Neuroscience & Behaviour researchtheme (weblink). Current strengths include a wide
range of behavioural and cognitive neuroscience, as well
as auditory and motor physiology, all underpinned by
fundamental studies of synaptic function and plasticity.
We are seeking candidates who have an interest in tak-
ing a “whole organism” approach to the neurobiological
and/or genetic basis of behaviour, to integrate with ex-
isting expertise in proximate (electrophysiological, cel-
lular and molecular) and ultimate (evolutionary, eco-
logical) approaches to the study of behaviour.
Links will be encouraged with other College-wide re-
search themes particularly Genome Science (weblink)
A Lectureship will also be oﬀered in association with
this post.
Closing date for applications 17th April 2011 See
https://swww2.le.ac.uk/oﬃces/personnel/ for further
details
Prof Paul Hart Head, Department of Biology University
of Leicester Leicester LE1 7RH UK
Phone: +44 (0)116 2523348 Fax: +44 (0)116 2523330
pbh@le.ac.uk
Fish and Fisheries Website: www.ﬁshandﬁsheries.org
Paul Hart <pbh@leicester.ac.uk >
UManchester EvolutionaryBiol
The Faculty of Life Sciences at The University of
Manchester have a new fellowship extension scheme for
Independent Research Fellows with substantive exter-
nal funding to join the Faculty as Principal Investi-
gators. For Fellows bringing in 4-5 years of external
funding (on qualifying schemes) the Faculty will top up
fellowships by 1 to 2 years additional support. This
scheme reﬂects our desire to ensure that Fellows can
perform to their full potential and develop highly com-
petitive biology research programmes. The Faculty has
an excellent track record in retaining fellows as perma-
nent academic members of staﬀ.
The world-class research in our Faculty is or-
ganised into 12 interconnected areas ( http:/-
/www.manchester.ac.uk/lifesciences/research/-
researchgroups ) and we are recruiting in any of
these. The Faculty’s research spans the entire spread
of life sciences from molecules to cells to organisms and
environmental sciences. We are interested in dynamic
successful individuals with an outstanding record ofApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
achievement at the post-doctoral or junior investigator
level. The Faculty oﬀers a vibrant collaborative
research environment, being one of the largest and
most successful research organisations of its type in
Europe. At the latest Research Assessment Exercise, it
was ranked in the top three life science departments in
the country. Investigators are housed in purpose-built
laboratory and oﬃce space (most less than 7 years old)
with access to superb state-of-the-art core facilities.
For further information or informal discussions please
contact the relevant Research Group Leader or the
Associate Dean for Research (Prof. Cay Kielty).
More details, including relevant contact details, can be
found at http://www.manchester.ac.uk/lifesciences/-
research/fellows/ To be considered for this scheme,
prospective fellows should send a brief curriculum vi-
tae and one page summary of their research interests
to fellowships.lifesciences@manchester.ac.uk
There are two deadline dates for applications to this
scheme in 2011: 31st March 2011 and 30th September
2011.
Caroline.Aylott@manchester.ac.uk
UmeaU PaleoEvolution
Senior lecturer in paleoecology Ume˚ a University, Swe-
den, is seeking a senior lecturer in paleoecology. The
holder of the position should have one of two nonexclu-
sive research proﬁles, both aimed at strengthening the
integration between research in paleoecology, ecology
and evolution in the research environment Ecosystem
Change, which has been identiﬁed as a Strong Research
Environment at Ume˚ a University and includes ecolo-
gists, environmental scientists, evolutionary biologists,
bio-mathematicians, and biogeochemists.
One possible research proﬁle is in aquatic paleoecology
to study lake-ecosystem dynamics across limnological
and paleolimnological timescales (Holocene), integrat-
ing geochemical and ecological/evolutionary research.
Here, we particularly encourage applications from sci-
entists using up-to-date paleolimnological approaches
such as molecular genetic, spectroscopic or biogeochem-
ical methods. An alternative research proﬁle is in evolu-
tionary paleoecology to address evolutionary questions
with paleoecological methods, to enhance the ongoing
integration of paleoecology with research in evolution
and biogeography, and in collaboration with researchers
in macroevolution, macroecology, phylogenetics or pop-ulation genetics.
The duration of a position as associate senior lecturer
is four years of research, and can be expanded to ﬁve
years with 20 % of teaching. At the end of the employ-
ment period, an associate senior lecturer owns the right
to be examined for a permanent position as senior lec-
turer at Ume˚ a University. The assessment criteria for
such an examination are described in the corresponding
job proﬁle.
To be eligible, in the ﬁrst place, for the position as
associate senior lecturer you should have a PhD, or a
corresponding degree, which is not more than ﬁve years
old, in a relevant ﬁeld such as ecology, evolutionary bi-
ology, environmental science or biogeochemistry.
An associate senior lecturer should primarily pursue re-
search. The successful applicant is expected to create
his/her own research group and to supervise graduate
students as well as post-docs. He/she is also expected
to attract research grants from external sources of fund-
ing and to have a vivid collaboration with scientists at
both Ume˚ a University and other universities. In the
evaluation, particular emphasis will be given to scien-
tiﬁc skills. Pedagogical and administrative skills and
the ability to collaborate with other researchers in the
Strong Research Environment will also be considered.
Further information about the position and how
to apply can be found at http://www8.umu.se/-
umu/aktuellt/arkiv/lediga tjanster/312-224-225-
11.html#eng Last day for application is April 26,
2011.
Roland Jansson, associate professor Dept. of Ecology
and Environmental Science Ume˚ a University SE-901 87
Ume˚ a, Sweden phone: +46-(0)90-7869573 web: http:/-
/www.emg.umu.se/english/about-the-department/-
staﬀ/jansson-roland roland.jansson@emg.umu.se
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics
Research Scientist
The Department of Biology at the University of Vir-
ginia invites applications for a Research Scientist posi-
tion. The research will focus primarily on the genomic
and bioinformatic resources to be used in the identiﬁ-
cation of sodium channel genes in reptiles. The posi-
tion also involves analyzing and preparing materials for
publication, data management and dissemination, and
mentoring graduate and undergraduate students.48 EvolDir April 1, 2011
The completion of Ph.D. degree in Biology or a related
discipline by appointment start date is required. Candi-
dates must be proﬁcient with maximum likelihood and
mixed-model multivariate statistical analyses of quan-
titative genetic data. Candidates with a background
in evolutionary biology and experience in the develop-
ment of analytical mathematical models are preferred.
Candidates must have eﬀective oral and written com-
munication skills.
To apply, please submit a candidate proﬁle on-line and
attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the contact
information for three references through Jobs@UVA
(https://jobs.virginia.edu ); search on posting number
0607344.
Review of applications will begin April 11, 2011; how-
ever, the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Questions regarding this position should be directed to:
Dr. Edmund Brodie III bbrodie@virginia.edu
Questions regarding the Candidate Proﬁle process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to:
Shawna Edinger 434-982-5615 se5k@virginia.edu
Women and members of underrepresented groups are
encouraged to apply. The University of Virginia is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
“Edinger, Shawna (se5k)”
<se5k@eservices.virginia.edu >
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics 2
Research Scientist
The Department of Biology at the University of Vir-
ginia invites applications for a Research Scientist posi-
tion. The research will focus primarily on the genomic
and bioinformatic resources to be used in the identiﬁ-
cation of sodium channel genes in reptiles. The posi-
tion also involves analyzing and preparing materials for
publication, data management and dissemination, and
mentoring graduate and undergraduate students.
A Ph.D. degree in Biology or a related discipline and at
least three years post-doctoral experience is required.
Candidates must be proﬁcient with maximum likeli-
hood and mixed-model multivariate statistical analy-
ses of quantitative genetic data. Candidates with a
background in evolutionary biology and experience in
the development of analytical mathematical models arepreferred. Candidates must have eﬀective oral and writ-
ten communication skills.
To apply, please submit a candidate proﬁle on-line and
attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the contact
information for three references through Jobs@UVA
(https://jobs.virginia.edu ); search on posting number
0607414.
Review of applications will begin April 15, 2011; how-
ever, the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Questions regarding this position should be directed to:
Dr. Edmund Brodie III bbrodie@virginia.edu
Questions regarding the Candidate Proﬁle process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to:
Shawna Edinger 434-982-5615 se5k@virginia.edu
Women and members of underrepresented groups are
encouraged to apply. The University of Virginia is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
“Edinger, Shawna (se5k)”
<se5k@eservices.virginia.edu >
Vienna GroupLeader PopGenetics
Tenure-track group leader position available at the In-
stitute of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna.
The research focus of the Institute of Population Ge-
netics is to understand the genetics of adaptation. This
central question in evolutionary biology is being tack-
led using a variety of approaches including experimen-
tal evolution, quantitative genetics, life history, evo-
devo, experimental population genetics, bioinformatics
and statistics. While the workhorse in the institute is
Drosophila (we host one of the largest collection of nat-
ural D. melanogaster populations), research at the in-
stitute also includes Arabidopsis, camels, cheetahs and
lemurs among others.
To strengthen functional Drosophila genetics we are
searching for a group leader to join the Institute of Pop-
ulation Genetics. The successful candidate will have
a proven record of high quality research in functional
Drosophila genetics, preferably with a proven ability to
attract extramural funding. The speciﬁc research area
of the candidate is not as important as a keen inter-
est to take advantage of the expertise available at the
institute.
The future post holder will have priority access to aApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
state of the art core facility (including an Illumina
sequencer), well-equipped laboratory space and facil-
ities for ﬂy work (including state of the art imaging
equipment). The successful applicant will receive fund-
ing through the Vienna School of Population Genetics
(http://www.popgen-vienna.at ), which attracts an in-
ternational body of graduate students.
In recent years Vienna has developed into one of the
leading centers in population genetics and evolution-
ary biology ( http://www.evolvienna.at ) and is home to
a high proﬁle Drosophila research community and the
VDRC Stock Center. In an addition to a stimulating
scientiﬁc environment, Vienna also oﬀers an extraor-
dinary quality of living. Aﬀordable housing, excellent
public transport, great restaurants, a range of inter-
national schools, two operas, two music centers, many
theaters and museums in combination with a pleasantclimate make Vienna one of the most attractive cities
in Europe.
The position is available from June 2011.
The application should be emailed to chris-
tian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at as a single pdf
containing CV, list of publications, a statement of
research interests, and the names of three references
with contact details. While the search will continue
until the position is ﬁlled, applications should be
received by April, 30 to ensure full consideration.
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin¨ arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at schlotc@gmail.com
Other
Access to C-ﬁt7 package . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Ancestral genome program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Bayesian supertree question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Bayesian supertree question anwers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Buccal swab sampling storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
China FieldStudy EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Constructing computer clusters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
DataONE Summer Internship Opportunity . . . . . . . . 52
Didymosphenia samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Eukaryote 18S primers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Evaluating ﬁtness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
EvoDevo Funding Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
EvoDevo texts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
EvoDevo texts answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Evolution 2011 UndergraduateDiversity DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
EvolutionTeaching YouTube . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
EZVision information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
France VolFieldAssist TurtleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Freeware Hsu correction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Genepop matrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Genetics Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Haplodiploid method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58Invasive species . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Lepidoptera samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Likelihood Bayesian software question . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Linux Easypop software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Linux Easypop software answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Marine Gastropod Samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
NESCent WorkingGroup CallProposals EvolMedicine
60
New Drosophila stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
New evolution teaching video . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Phyloinformatics NESCent SummerCode . . . . . . . . . . 61
Positive selection software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Positive selection software answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Primate opsin sequences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
RAxML visitor program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Rhododendron samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
R package DEMEtics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
SaoPaulo UNESP VisitingEvolutionTeacher . . . . . . . 64
SMBE2011 HomePage Server Transfer . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Softare fastsimcoal 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Software multicore TreeFinder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist MammalEvolution
6650 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Teaching evolutionary epigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Tree of life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
TreeOfLife CommunitySequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UBristol VolunteerFieldAssist ClimateAdaptation . 68
UPGMA teaching example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Visualizing popgen processes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69Visualizing popgen processes answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Walter Fitch dies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Xenostrobus securis samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Zootaxa editor needed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Access to C-ﬁt7 package
Dear evoldir readers,
I would like to construct clines on morphometric traits
across a hybrid zone. The C-ﬁt7 package by Lau-
rene Gay seems to do a very good job on this.:
Comparing clines on molecular and phenotypic traits
in hybrid zones: a window on tension zone models.
Evolution, 62(11): 2789-2806. 2008 Unfortunatelly,
the download link ( http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/ecogev/-
siteGB/CFitpage.htm ) is broken and I can’t contact
Laurene Gay. Does anybody has the package or knows
how to get it?
Any help is appreciated.
Cheers, Markus
Dr. Markus Ritz Senckenberg Museum of Natural His-
tory G¨ orlitz Am Museum 1 02826 G¨ orlitz / Germany
+49 3581 4760 5309
Markus Ritz <markus.ritz@web.de >
Ancestral genome program
Dear colleagues,
Are there some programs available to reconstruct the
bacterial ancestral genome content? I am working on
three marine bacterial taxa. They fall into three or-
ders in Alphaproteobacteria. I want to reconstruct the
genome content of their common ancestor, and am look-
ing for a program that is particularly robust in dif-
ferentiating gene loss and lateral gene transfer events,
which are responsible for the sporadic distribution of
gene families in these genomes.
Thanks,Haiwei Luo Postdoctoral associate Department of Ma-
rine Sciences University of Georgia
hluo2006@gmail.com
Bayesian supertree question
Dear EvolDir members,
I would like to know if there is any program that al-
lows me to make supertrees and supermatrices using
maximum likelihood (ML) and/or bayesian inference
algorithms. I found literature which discusses these al-
gorithms applied to the development of supertrees from
a theoretical point of view, but I am not able to ﬁnd a
program where the aforementioned algorithms are ap-
plied.
Thanks for your attention.
Kindly regards,
Enrique Gonz´ alez-Tortuero Ctra. de Alcal´ a, 9 19174
Torrej´ on del Rey (Guadalajara, Spain)
enriquegleztortuero@gmail.com
Bayesian supertree question anwers
Dear EvolDir members,
I want to thank the participation of the people I have
answered on this issue. At the request of a researcher,
I will discuss the responses I received.
Another researcher told me the use of program BEST (
http://www.stat.osu.edu/˜dkp/BEST/introduction/ )
to make the supermatrices - and / or supertrees - by
ML (maximum likelihood) or BI (Bayesian inference)
algorithms. This program is used to estimate the dis-
tribution of nodes posterior of gene and species treesApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
using multilocus molecular data. However, I do not see
the relationship between this program (which is useful
when you have information from many DNA sequences
and you look for concatenate trees, if I understand cor-
rectly) and the elaboration of supertrees. Therefore,
I encourage any reader to a real answer whether any
relationship.
Except for this response, I gather that silence can mean
that no such program. If indeed this is what happens,
it would be interesting, with the help of a computer,
see if you can pass these mathematical algorithms to a
software package.
Thanks for your attention.
Kindly regards,
Enrique Gonz´ alez-Tortuero Ctra. de Alcal´ a, 9 19174
Torrej´ on del Rey (Guadalajara, Spain)
enriquegleztortuero@gmail.com
Buccal swab sampling storage
Hi Evoldir
I’m begginning a new project implicating ca-
maeleonidae sampling during long ﬁeld period. Conse-
quently I need to ﬁnd the best way to sample cameleons
in a non invasive way. I’m thinking of using buccal
swabs.
My question is simple How should I store those buccal
swabs during the ﬁeld period in order to avoid DNA
degradation ??
1Adding acohol to the tube containing the buccal
swab?? 2 adding some buﬀer in the tube???(edta, etc)
3adding some dessicant (silicagel) in the tube??? 4 any
other solution??? (even solution implincating other
methods than buccal swabs are welcome)
knowing that samples are going to stay during 2 to 7
month at ambient tropical temperature before being
bringing back to the lab.
If you have any experience with this kind of problems,
I would be happy to hear your advices or to read the
selected bibliography you suggest
Thanks a lot in advance
Jordi
Salmona Jordi PhD Student in Integrative Biomed-
ical Science Population and Conservation GeneticsGroup Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Rua da Quinta
Grande, 6/ Apartado 14 2781-901 Oeiras, Portu-
gal Tel Portugal IGC : +351 214407669 Tel Portu-
gal telemovel : +351 917980338 Tel Portugal home
: +351 211953580 jordi.salmona@gmail.com http://-
compbio.igc.gulbenkian.pt/pcg/pcg home.html http:/-
/www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/research/unit/88
China FieldStudy EvolGenetics
Please distribute to any undergraduates who might be
interested:
Unique (and Low-Cost) Opportunity for Ten Under-
graduates 2012 Ecological Genetics Field Study Abroad
in China
*Learn Chinese and Ecological Genetics at the Univer-
sity of Georgia*
With funding from NSF’s Partnerships for Interna-
tional Research and Education (PIRE) program, we
are oﬀering 10 undergraduates (U.S. citizens or perma-
nent residents only) the opportunity to participate in
a unique research abroad opportunity in China during
the spring and summer of 2012. This is the 4th year
of the program and students have found it to be enor-
mously rewarding. This is likely to be the penultimate
oﬀering of this course.
The research focus of our PIRE grant is a forensic bio-
geographic study of species that are native to China
and invasive in the southeastern U.S. as well as a grow-
ing number of species native to the southeastern U.S.
and invasive in China.
Each summer, we run a 6 week ﬁeld course where we
visit biological communities throughout China. After
the ﬁeld course, students continue in short-term (3-4-
week) research internships in our partner labs in China.
Students will need to be prepared to take full advan-
tage of this experience. Therefore, during the spring
semester, students must enroll at the University of
Georgia (UGA) and take 3 courses; two in intensive
elementary Mandarin Chinese and a laboratory course
in genetics. No prior experience with Chinese language
is required, although students should have had at least
a course in introductory biology and preferably courses
in ecology and evolutionary biology.
After 1 semester of Chinese, most of our students can
operate quite well in China.52 EvolDir April 1, 2011
The cost to the student of the summer program is mini-
mal: the grant covers travel to and within China, lodg-
ing and most meals. The student is responsible for
health insurance, visa costs and personal expenses. Stu-
dents are also responsible for the costs of enrolling at
the University of Georgia for all required courses (12
credit hours) (all students are charged at the in-state
tuition rate of ~$300 per credit hour plus fees).
The deadline for applications is April 29, 2011.
Applications for the 2012 program are available
on our website: http://www.genetics.uga.edu/pire/-
undergrad.html . We encourage any interested students
to contact Dr. Mauricio for more information (mauri-
cio@uga.edu).
Rodney Mauricio Program Director, UGA-China PIRE
Rodney Mauricio, Ph.D. Department of Genetics Uni-
versity of Georgia Athens, GA 30602-7223
Lab Web Page: http://www.genetics.uga.edu/-
mauriciolab=0APIRE Grant Web Page: http://-
www.genetics.uga.edu/pire
Constructing computer clusters
Anyone have experience converting a student computer
lab into a cluster for parallelizing phylogenetic analyses
and next-gen sequence assembly? Any suggestions?
Justen
jwhittall@scu.edu jwhittall@scu.edu
DataONE Summer Internship
Opportunity
The Data Observation Network for Earth (DataONE)
is a virtual organization dedicated to providing open,
persistent, robust, and secure access to biodiversity and
environmental data, supported by the U.S. National
Science Foundation. DataONE is pleased to announce
the availability of summer research internships for un-
dergraduates, graduate students and recent postgradu-
ates. Program Structure
Up to eight interns will be accepted in 2011, each pairedwith one primary mentor and, in some cases, secondary
mentors. Interns need not necessarily be at the same
location or institution as their mentor(s). Interns and
mentors are expected to have a face-to-face meeting at
the beginning of the summer, and interns are encour-
aged to attend the DataONE All-Hands Meeting in the
fall to present the results of their work. DataONE will
pay all necessary travel expenses. Schedule
- *March 15* - Application period opens - *April 8* -
Deadline for receipt of applications at midnight Paciﬁc
time - *April 15* - Notiﬁcation of acceptance. Schedul-
ing of face-to-face kickoﬀ meetings based on availabil-
ity of interns and mentors - *May 23* - Program be-
gins* - *June 27* - Midterm evaluations - *July 29* -
Program concludes - *October 18-20* - DataONE All-
Hands-Meeting, New Mexico (attendance encouraged)
* Allowance will be made for students who are unavail-
able during these date due to their school calendar. El-
igibility
The program is open to all undergraduate students,
graduate students, and postgraduates who have re-
ceived their masters or doctorate within the past ﬁve
years. Given the broad range of projects, there are no
restrictions on academic backgrounds or ﬁeld of study.
Interns must be at least 18 years of age by the program
start date, must be currently enrolled or employed at
a university or other research institution and must cur-
rently reside in, and be eligible to work in, the United
States. Interns are expected to be available approx-
imately 40 hours/week during the internship period
(noted below) with signiﬁcant availability during the
normal business hours. Interns from previous years are
eligible to participate. Financial Support
Interns will receive a stipend of $4,500 for participa-
tion, paid in two installments (one at the midterm and
one at the conclusion of the program). In addition,
required travel expenses will be borne by DataONE.
Participation in the program after the mid-term is con-
tingent on satisfactory performance. The University of
New Mexico will administer funds. Interns will need
to supply their own computing equipment and Internet
connection. For students who are not US citizens or
permanent residents, complete visa information will be
required, and it may be necessary for the funds to be
paid through the students university or research insti-
tution. In such cases, the student will need to provide
the necessary contact information for their organiza-
tion. Project Ideas
Projects cover a range of topic areas and vary in the
extent and type of prior background required of the
intern. The interests and expertise of the applicants
will, in part, determine which projects will be selectedApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
for the program. Oﬀ-list projects are also eligible, in
which case potential applicants are strongly encouraged
to contact the organizers and/or potential mentors with
their ideas prior to applying. The titles of this years
projects (see below for more detailed descriptions) are:
1. DATA MANAGEMENT: Best practices of data
management for public participation in science and re-
search 2. DATA MANAGEMENT: Online learning
modules related to best practices throughout the data
lifecycle 3. EDUCATION: Accessing and analyzing en-
vironmental data in the classroom 4. SOCIOLOGY OF
SCIENCE: Understanding how scientists analyze data
5. DATA SCIENCE: How much ecological data is out
there? 6. DATA SCIENCE: Tracking the reuse of 1000
datasets 7. PROGRAMMING: Subsetting and publish-
ing scientiﬁc datasets 8. PROGRAMMING: Scientiﬁc
workﬂow provenance repository and publishing toolkit
9. PROGRAMMING: Integrating loosely structured
data into the Linked Open Data cloud 10. SCIENCE
COMMUNICATION: Developing video animations for
DataONE community engagement
To Apply
Application materials should be sent to intern-
ship@dataone.org by 11:59 PM (Paciﬁc time) on April
8th, and should include a cover letter, resume and letter
of reference all in *PDF* format. The applicant should
send the cover letter and resume, while the letter of
reference should be sent directly by its author.
1. The cover letter should address the following ques-
tions: - What DataONE Summer Internship projects
are you most interested in and why? - What contribu-
tions do you expect to be able to make to the project(s)?
- What background do you have which is relevant to
the project(s)? - What do you expect to learn and/or
achieve by participating?
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Didymosphenia samples
All,
My collaborators (listed below) and I are requesting as-
sistance in obtaining samples of Didymosphenia gemi-nata to assist with our research project entitled: “De-
termining the ecological and evolutionary processes as-
sociated with distribution and behavior of the nuisance
freshwater diatom Didymosphenia geminata”.
The speciﬁc supporting objectives of this research are
to utilize contemporary molecular genetic and genomic
techniques to: a) assemble a de novo transcriptome of
D. geminata; b) identify and apply a suﬃciently large
number of nuclear genes for phylogenetic, phylogeo-
graphic, and population-level delineation, and c) con-
duct genome-wide association studies via comparative
functional genomic comparisons;
Ideally, we would like to have samples preserved in
RNAlater which will allow extraction of RNA and
DNA. If you are willing to assist us by sharing sam-
ples or would like to obtain a copy of the project pro-
posal, please contact one of the team. We will provide
all necessary preservation/storage materials and pay all
shipping costs.
We are also researching the development of culture
methods to identify conditions which will allow this
diatom to be brought into the laboratory for exten-
sive physiological research; and will be conducting wa-
ter quality evaluations to determine the environmen-
tal conditions that lead to shifts in demographic and
growth patterns resulting in population explosions (i.e.,
blooms).
Collaborators Michael R. Gretz, Professor, Biotech-
nology Research Center, Department of Biological
Sciences, Michigan Technological University (MTU),
1400 Townsend Drive, Houghton, Michigan 49931-1295;
Phone: (906) 487-3175; E-mail: mrgretz@mtu.edu
Leslie J. Matthews, Environmental Scientist; Wa-
ter Quality Division, Department of Environmen-
tal Conservation, Vermont Agency of Natural Re-
sources, 103 South Main Street, 10 North, Water-
bury, VT 05671; Phone: (802) 241-3798; E-mail:
leslie.matthews@state.vt.us
Marina Potapova, Phycologist, Herbarium Cura-
tor; Diatom Herbarium, Academy of Natural Sci-
ences, 1900 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadel-
phia, PA 19103-1101; Phone: (215) 299-1000; E-mail:
potapova@ansp.org
Andy L. Rost, Graduate Research Assistant, Univer-
sity of Nevada, Reno, Desert Research Institute, Div.
Earth and Ecosystem Sciences, 2215 Raggio Parkway,
Reno, Nevada 89512; Phone: (775) 673-7633; E-mail:
arost@dri.edu
Thank you for considering this request.
Fair Winds and Following Seas,54 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Tim L. King, Ph.D. U. S. Geological Survey Leetown
Science Center Aquatic Ecology Branch 11649 Leetown
Road Kearneysville, WV 25430 Phone: 304.724.4450
Facsimile: 304.724.4424 Mobile: 304.582.4622
“It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor
the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is
most adaptable to change.” Charles Darwin
tlking@usgs.gov
Eukaryote 18S primers
Dear EvolDir members,
I am looking for a set of eukaryote speciﬁc 18S (SSU)
primers amplifying a fragment about 3-400 bp long
(i.e. suitable for 454 sequencing). So far those here
(of Stoeck et al.) appear to be the best published ones
(of about 250 bp)
http://icomm.mbl.edu/microbis/project pages/-
details/proposals/APP proposal.pdf but I may well
have overlooked something. If anybody could point
me to such a well approved set (or recommend those
above) working well on all eukaryotes, I would be very
grateful.
Best regards
Christoﬀer Bugge Harder
University of Copenhagen
Christoﬀer Bugge Harder <cbharder@bio.ku.dk >
Evaluating ﬁtness
Dear EvolDir members,
I would like to know if there is any program that allows
me to evaluate the ﬁtness between a phylogenetic model
and data, especially to compare the model ﬁtness of
GTR model (Maximum likelihood inference) and CAT
model (Bayesian inference).
Thanks for your attention.
Kindly regards,
Bojian ZHONG, Allan Wilson Centre, IMBS, Massey
UniversityBojian Zhong <bjzhong@gmail.com >
EvoDevo Funding Opportunity
Please note the upcoming deadline for research
exchange grants from the Evo-Devo-Eco Network
(EDEN) is April 30, 2011. EDEN is a program funded
by the National Science Foundation Research Coordi-
nation ( http://edenrcn.com/ ).
One of EDENs major goals is to enable graduate stu-
dents, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty to undertake
research exchanges in the ﬁeld of Evo-Devo-Eco, in or-
der to develop or share techniques, protocols and tools
for use with emerging model systems.
This spring EDEN will award ﬁve research exchanges
to be held in 2011-2012. Each exchange will consist of
an award of up to $3,000 per researcher toward travel,
lodging and subsistence costs. You can ﬁnd out more
about this program at http://edenrcn.com/funding/-
index.html . If you know of outstanding lab personnel
who would be interested, please forward this announce-
ment to them.
If you have not done so already, please consider “join-
ing” EDEN by ﬁlling out a brief survey about your lab’s
areas of expertise. You can complete the survey on our
website at http://edenrcn.com/join/ or by clicking
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/JoinEDEN This
survey will allow your lab to be added to a searchable
database of scientists, organisms and techniques that is
available on the EDEN website ( http://edenrcn.com/-
participating/ ). With this database, other researchers
in development, evolution and ecology will be able to
learn about your work, hopefully facilitating new and
useful networks and collaborations.
Please feel free to email edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu with
questions about the program, and forward this email to
colleagues who you think would be interested in EDEN.
“Grants, EDEN” <edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu >
EvoDevo texts
Dear friends,April 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
Some of my biology undergraduate students are inter-
ested in to read about Evo Devo ideas, history, theories,
etc.
I would like please to receive suggestions about book
chapters, articles with good examples and reviews
about this subject!
Thanks for any help!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Universidade de
Taubate - Departamento de Biologia Taubate,
SP. 12030-010. E-Mail: jcvoltol@uol.com.br
ECOTROP (CNPq): http://dgp.cnpq.br/-
buscaoperacional/detalhegrupo.jsp?grupo=-
1546205IMB87W7 Curr´ ıculo Lattes: http://-
lattes.cnpq.br/8137155809735635 Orkut (“En-
sino de Ciˆ encia”): http://www.orkut.com.br/-
Main#Proﬁle?rl=ls&uid=17608429643840608483
Fotos Art´ ısticas: http://voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas
’Siamo tutti angeli con un’ala e possiamo volare
soltanto se ciabbracciamo’
VOLTOLINI <jcvoltol@uol.com.br >
EvoDevo texts answers
Dear friends,
Thanks to 30 people who wrote me indicating books
and videos to use with undergrad classes about Evo
Devo and these are the most cited material:
—–
The most cited books:
Endless Forms Most Beautiful for Evo Devo. By
Sean Carroll. http://www.amazon.co.uk/Endless-
Forms-Most-Beautiful-Science/dp/1849160481/ref=-
sr11?ie=UTF8&qid01065731&sr=8-1 . It would be
a good introduction to get students interested. Very
accessible.
>From DNA To Diversity: Molecular Genetics and the
Evolution of Animal Design, 2nd ed. Carroll, Grenier,
Weatherbee. 2005. Blackwell Publishing.
Wallace Arthur “Evolution. A developmental ap-
proach”, which was just published by Wiley-Blackwell.
Hall BK, Olson WM: Keywords and Concepts in Evo-
lutionary Developmental Biology. 2003:476.
—–
Other books:There is a very nice chapter on the topic written by
John True in Futuyma’s textbook, Evolution (2nd edi-
tion).
“The Origin of Animal Body Plans” by Wallace Arthur
The evolution of developmental pathways. Wilkins.
Wray, G. A. 2010. Embryos and Evolution: 150 years
of reciprocal illumination. In: Evolution Since Darwin:
The Firt 150 Years, pp. 215-239, in M. A. Bell, D. J.
Futuyma, W. F. Eanes, and M. A. Bell. Sinauer Asso-
ciates, Sunderland.
Developmental plasticity and evolution. West-
Eberhard. (lots of overview material)
Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Gould. (not exactly up to
date, it’s from 1977)
Evolution - The Extended Synthesis IT Press,
2010 http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/item/-
default.asp?ttype=2&tid173 Evolution, Development,
and the Predictable Genome. David L. Stern (Author)
http://www.amazon.com/Evolution-Development-
Predictable-Genome-David/dp/1936221012/ref=-
sr16?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid01078243&sr=1-6
Gilbert & Epel’s “Ecological Developmental Biology:
Integrating Epigenetics, Medicine, and Evolution
The shape of life. Raﬀ
—–
VIDEOS:
”Ghost in Your Genes“ ( http://www.amazon.com/-
Ghost-Your-Genes-Nova/dp/B000XBPDYY/ref=-
sr11?ie=UTF8&s=dvd&qid01077278&sr=8-1 )
”What Darwin Never Knew“ both produced by the
television show NOVA.
PBS video: http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/body/-
epigenetics.html http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/-
body/rnai-explained.html http://www.pbs.org/-
wgbh/nova/body/rnai.html http://www.hhmi.org/-
biointeractive/rna/rna interference/01.html http://-
www.nature.com/focus/rnai/animations/index.html
http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/-
rats/ —–
Website:
On ENSI site, there is a very nice Threespine
Stickleback lesson that introduces elements of evo-
devo: http://www.indiana.edu/ ˜ ensiweb/lessons/-
stickleback.html —–
Thanks for all of you and....... we need a website to
organize references, links of videos and also a library of
slides. We are always discussing about research but we
need a place to centralize all material!56 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Universidade de
Taubate - Departamento de Biologia Taubate, SP.
12030-010. E-Mail: jcvoltol@uol.com.br ECOTROP
(CNPq): http://dgp.cnpq.br/buscaoperacional/-
detalhegrupo.jsp?grupo46205IMB87W7 Curr´ ıculo Lat-
tes: http://lattes.cnpq.br/8137155809735635 Orkut
(”Ensino de Ciˆ encia“): http://www.orkut.com.br/-
Main#Proﬁle?rl=ls&uid608429643840608483 Fotos
Art´ ısticas: http://voltolini.album.uol.com.br/texturas
. ’Siamo tutti angeli con un’ala e possiamo volare
soltanto se ciabbracciamo’
jcvoltol@uol.com.br
Evolution 2011
UndergraduateDiversity
DeadlineExtended
Application Deadline Extended! Undergraduate Diver-
sity at the Evolution meetings 2011
We have extended the deadline for our NSF-funded pro-
gram for bringing talented and diverse undergraduates
to the Evolution meetings this June 17-21 in Norman,
Oklahoma. The application deadline is now Tuesday,
March 15th.
For the ninth year in a row we will ﬂy a cohort of 25 un-
dergraduates from throughout the US and Puerto Rico
to present a poster at the meetings, receive mentor-
ing from graduate students, postdocs and faculty, and
participate in the Diversity Social as well as a career-
oriented ’Undergraduate Futures in Evolutionary Bi-
ology’ panel and discussion. The program covers the
costs of travel, registration, food and accommodation
at the meetings.
The application deadline has been extended to March
15th, but admissions will be reviewed as they are re-
ceived, and so the earlier you apply, the better. Appli-
cations are welcomed from all undergraduates, and the
admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of students.
An overview of the program and student eligibility can
be found at:
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/edwards/-
community/application.html Apply online at:
www.nescent.org/Evolution2011 application Applica-
tions consist of a short statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation and the title and abstract of the
poster to be presented.In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduate
students, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Men-
tors take pairs of students and attend talks with them,
introduce them to colleagues, network and generally
make the meetings a welcoming place for them. Al-
though costs are not covered for mentors it is an un-
usually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kliman
<rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >if you are interested in
serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu Richard
Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu Jory Weintraub -
jory@nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
and Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200 Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub Web:
www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
EvolutionTeaching YouTube
Evolution Academy http://www.youtube.com/-
watch?v= 8h0rB8f99w Wide attention was given
(New York Times, February 7) to the article by Berk-
man and Plutzer in the Science Educational Forum
(January 28). This noted that creationism was being
defeated in the courtroom, but not in the classroom.
The proposed remedy was that college level education
for future teachers include a mandatory course on
evolution. To assist this, I have posted 12 short
“Evolution Academy” videos on YouTube. These are
modelled on the highly successful educational videos
of the Khan Academy that are attracting world-wide
attention ( http://www.khanacademy.org/ ) and have
won Gates Foundation support. My qualiﬁcations
for this task include (i) my textbook Evolutionary
Bioinformatics the second edition of which has just
been released (Springer, New York), (ii) my revision
of a chapter in Lewin’s Genes X, and (iii) biographies
of early evolutionists (William Bateson and George
Romanes). You may visit my web-pages on evolution
athttp://post.queensu.ca/ ˜ forsdyke/evolutio.htm
or inspect video titles at http://post.queensu.ca/-
˜ forsdyke/videolectures.htm Donald R. ForsdykeApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
Department of Biochemistry, Queen’s University,
Kingston, Canada K7L3N6
Donald Roy Forsdyke <forsdyke@queensu.ca >
EZVision information
I want to migrate to a non-toxic dye for gel visualiza-
tion and Ive heard about EZ-Vision. I would like to
know if anybody is using it or has used it and what are
the opinions about this reagent.
Thanks so much,
LYDA RAQUEL CASTRO, Ph.D Profesor Asistente
Programa de Biologia Dir. Grupo de investigacion en
evolucion y sistematica molecular Universidad del Mag-
dalena Santa Marta, Colombia (575) 4301292 ext 273
lydaraquelcastro@hotmail.com
France VolFieldAssist
TurtleEvolution
Field assistant in evolutionary ecology of European
pond turtles
We are looking for a voluntary ﬁeld assistant to par-
ticipate in a conservation project on European pond
turtles (Emys orbicularis) from mid April to mid July
2011 at the Research Station Petite Camargue Alsaci-
enne in France ( www.camargue.unibas.ch ).
The work will include caring for the about 80 pond tur-
tles living in the station’s outdoor enclosures, captur-
ing the turtles, observing breeding behaviour, locating
nests and collecting eggs for artiﬁcial incubation in the
lab. The applicant is expected to stay for the entire
ﬁeld season from mid April until mid July. Applicants
should preferably have some knowledge of French or
German. The work is planned as a student internship,
thus applicants must be students.
The ﬁeld site is situated in the nature reserve Petite
Camargue Alsacienne in France, about 10 km north of
Basel (Switzerland). We cannot cover travel expenses,
but we oﬀer free accommodation and use of the infras-
tructure at the research station.The position will be ﬁlled as soon as possible. Appli-
cations should be in English, French or German, and
should include, in one single pdf or word ﬁle, a cur-
riculum vitae and a letter of motivation. Please pro-
vide names and email addresses of two persons who are
willing to write a letter of recommendation, and send
applications by email to the following address:
PD Dr. Valentin Amrhein Zoological Institute Univer-
sity of Basel
valentin amrhein <pca.recherche@orange.fr >
Freeware Hsu correction
Dear Evoldir community,
I am looking for an alternative way to perform Hsu
(1996)’s correction in resampling procedures (exactly:
to correct resampling procedures for a skewed distribu-
tion and diﬀerent sample sizes) - it is implemented in
the software Genstat which I do not want to buy just
for that. If anyone of you has heard about an alter-
native software or has written some R code/skript or
something like that, I would be happy for any sugges-
tion.
Thanks to all of you, Cheers, Katharina
katharina.keil@uni-muenster.de
Genepop matrix
Dear community,
I was wondering if anyone could send me a well-
working matrix for analysing binary (0/1) DNA mark-
ers at GenePop software. We are trying to analyze
by Mcheza software positive selection occuring along
an ISSR dataset. Talking with Tiago Ant˜ ao (Mcheza’s
dad) he said me that a well-working matrix prepared
for Genepop is the unique way to make our dataset
working ﬁne at Macheza.
So if anyone could help us I will be glad for that.
Thanks in advance.
Rodrigo A. Torres, PhD Laborat´ orio de Genˆ omica Evo-
lutiva e Ambiental Departamento de Zoologia, UFPE
Brazil58 EvolDir April 1, 2011
“Rodrigo A. Torres” <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Genetics Awards
The American Genetic Association grants awards each
year to AGA members for support of special events that
further the purposes of the Association.
Eligible events include specialized workshops open to
AGA members in areas of great current interest and
short courses in some aspect of organismal genetics,
but any event that would advance the purpose of the
AGA is eligible for support. Awards are usually be-
tween $5,000-$20,000.
We encourage members to think creatively about the
types of events they could oﬀer with support from the
AGA. However, these funds are not intended to provide
awards such as travel support to attend outside meet-
ings or workshops not organized by the applicant(s).
The Council has a particular interest in assisting stu-
dents and emerging researchers to attend such events.
Funding of any event does not mean it will become a
permanent, ongoing commitment from the AGA, and
we encourage proposals for ﬁrst time events.
Applicants must be current members of the AGA. To
become a member or to view application guidelines,
please visit http://www.theaga.org . The Council will
review all applications received before Monday, May 2,
2011, and make award decisions at its annual meeting
in July 2011.
Best wishes
Anjanette Baker Managing Editor, Journal of Heredity
American Genetic Association 2030 SE Marine Science
Drive Newport, OR 97365
mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu
AGA Annual Symposium 2011: Genomics & Biodiver-
sity Guanajuato and Irapuato, Mexico 23-26 July 2011
for details, please visit: http://www.theaga.org/ aga-
joh@oregonstate.edu
Haplodiploid methodDear Evoldir community,
I am interested in examining some quantitative genetic
parameters for highly variable color patterns used for
recognition in paper wasps. To this end, I have records
of phenotypes for >1500 wasps from a pedigreed wild
population. Ideally, I would like to use the ’animal
model’ to examine this question but all of the currently
available packages for such analysis assume diploidy
(and wasps are haplodiploid). Does any know of a
method for adapting existing methods to this problem?
I am also open to collaboration if someone would be
interested in working on this issue.
Best Mike Sheehan mic@umich.edu
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of Michi-
gan
Michael Sheehan <mic@umich.edu >
Invasive species
Dear Colleagues,
One of the world’s largest demographic surveys of an
invasive species is looking for new and returning col-
laborators. The Global Garlic Mustard Field Survey is
now beginning its third ﬁeld season with demographic
data and seed collections from over 150 populations
across Europe and North America – more than any
published study of which we are aware. This year we
are working to double that number and we are partic-
ularly keen to increase collaboration in under-sampled
regions. For previous sample sites and preliminary re-
sults, see the map at www.GarlicMustard.org <http:/-
/www.garlicmustard.org/ >
The project is an international collaboration aimed at
obtaining much-needed data on the abundance and dis-
tribution of /Alliaria petiolata/ (Garlic Mustard). It
involves a very basic protocol that standardizes sam-
pling across sites, and takes place in late spring/early
summer making it ideal for incorporation into ﬁeld
courses, nature surveys, and long-term monitoring and
management eﬀorts. The estimated duration of sam-
pling for a team of two people is 3-6 hours per popula-
tion.
Academics who contribute to this endeavor will have
the opportunity to contribute to manuscripts re-
sulting from the work. Sampling protocol and
additional information are available at the follow-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
ing website: www.GarlicMustard.org <http://-
www.garlicmustard.org/ >. Please contact us directly
if you would like to participate or if you have any ques-
tions or concerns.
North-American**Coordinator Dr.Robert Co-
lautti Biology Department Duke University*
rob.colautti@duke.edu
*Eurasian Coordinator* Dr. Oliver Bossdorf Biology
Department University of Bern bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch
*Seed Collections Coordinator* Dr. Steven
Franks Biology Department Fordham University
franks@fordham.edu
rob.colautti@duke.edu
Lepidoptera samples
Hello EvolDir,
As part of a collaborative group of researchers I am
working on insects of conservation concern, speciﬁcally
I am screening North American Lepidoptera that are of
conservation concern for the endosymbiont Wolbachia.
We are seeking additional material for this screening,
speciﬁcally Lepidoptera that are listed at the state or
federal level.
Please contact me if you are willing to share materials
or discuss any details. I can send you pre-paid shipping
materials or reimburse you for your expenses. Thank
you.
Chris Hamm Department of Entomology Michigan
State University chamm@msu.edu
chamm@msu.edu
Likelihood Bayesian software
question
Hi everyone
I have a quick question about current software usage
regarding likelihood and Bayesian model selection, be-
ing absent from this type of discussion for sometime.
In the past I have developed some simple graphical
interfaces (MrMTgui and modelpie) for programs likeModelTest and MrModelTest, that had some traction
in the community. But with the not-so-recent advent
of jModelTest, I was wondering if there is still some
penetration of this type of simple GUIs, especially for
Mr/ModelTest and if the community would actually
use newly updated interfaces, apart from jModelTest
availability.
Lastly, I have been looking for new command-line ap-
plications that would require a similar approach in or-
der to reach a larger userbase, something simple that
can beneﬁt of a GUI that allows researchers to be more
comfortable with the software.
Any comments, ideas, opinions, please send me an email
at nuin AT genedrift DOT org.
Thanks a lot for the attention
Paulo Nuin
nuin@genedrift.org
Linux Easypop software
Dear all,
I was wondering if someone in the evoldir community
has compiled the foward individual based pop gen sim-
ulation program “easypop” for Linux. On its website,
downloads are only available compiled for Windows and
MacOS. I would really like to have this software on
Linux. The alternatives, which I found so far, are not
doing what I like to have. My main interest is to be
able to set the starting population to “maximum di-
versity”. Other such simulation programs start with
monomorphic populations, usually. But I am studying
a ﬁxation process under a certain scenario, and easypop
seems the best option to me (so far).
If you have further suggestions for other software, I’d
also be happy to hear from you.
Cheers, Robert
robert.kraus@wur.nl
Linux Easypop software answers
Dear all,60 EvolDir April 1, 2011
last week I posted a request for a Linux version of the
simulation program easypop (see original post below).
I didn’t ﬁnd anyone who could provide such a version.
However, I got several replies suggesting to use Wine
to emulate windows and then run the windows easypop
version. That shuuld work (it did for others), although I
haven’t had the time to try it. Thanks also to messages
from authors of other such simulation programmes! It
seems like one of those at least may help me.
Cheers, Robert
Dear all,
I was wondering if someone in the evoldir community
has compiled the foward individual based pop gen sim-
ulation program “easypop” for Linux. On its website,
downloads are only available compiled for Windows and
MacOS. I would really like to have this software on
Linux. The alternatives, which I found so far, are not
doing what I like to have. My main interest is to be
able to set the starting population to “maximum di-
versity”. Other such simulation programs start with
monomorphic populations, usually. But I am studying
a ﬁxation process under a certain scenario, and easypop
seems the best option to me (so far).
If you have further suggestions for other software, I’d
also be happy to hear from you.
Cheers, Robert
robert.kraus@wur.nl
Marine Gastropod Samples
Dear colleagues,
I’m a PhD student at University of the Azores. I work
with molecular population genetics and phylogeography
of littoral marine gastropods present Azores Islands.
I would be very grateful if you could help me to get
(or indicate people able to help me) samples of the fol-
lowing locations/species:** - *UK:* *Gibbula magus*
and *Melarhaphe neritoides*; - *Bay of Biscay:* *Bit-
tium latreillii* and *Melarhaphe neritoides*; - *Italy:*
*Bittium latreillii*, *Gibbula magus* and *Melarhaphe
neritoides* ; - *Greece:* *Bittium latreillii*.
Thank you, Ricardo Cordeiro
*Email:* rjpcordeiro@gmail.com*Institutional Address:* Departamento de Biologia,
Universidade dos A¸ cores Rua da M˜ ae de Deus,
Apartado 1422 9501-801 Ponta Delgada Azores, Por-
tugal
rjpcordeiro@gmail.com
NESCent WorkingGroup
CallProposals EvolMedicine
Request for proposals for working group on Evolution-
ary Medicine curriculum
NESCent (The National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter) is sponsoring a range of targeted activities in the
general area of Evolutionary Medicine. As part of this
program, NESCent is seeking to support a Working
Group focusing on the development and implementa-
tion of model curricula and curriculum materials in
Evolutionary Medicine to support teaching of under-
graduates, and students in medicine, nursing, public
health and medical research. The resources developed
should show how evolutionary principles play an im-
portant role in understanding health and disease, and
ideally, should span a wide breadth of medical disci-
plines.
NESCent Working Groups involve small groups of sci-
entists (10-12 participants) collaborating intensively on
the analysis or synthesis of data, models or both, to
address a major question in evolutionary science. The
working groups will typically meet 3-4 times over two
years, with each meeting lasting 3-5 days. Meetings
will be held at NESCent in Durham, North Carolina.
Support includes travel, lodging and per diem.
Proposals are due by April 1st, 2011.
For more information, including details on the pro-
posal process and requirements, please see http://-
www.nescent.org/evomedcurriculum . Jory P. Wein-
traub, PhD Assistant Director, Education and
Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200 Box
104403 Durham, NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578
Fax: 919.668.9198 Email: jory@nescent.org Skype:
jory.weintraub Web: www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
New Drosophila stocks
The /Drosophila/ Species Stock Center at UCSD would
like to announce the availability of three new genomic
DNA packs for the /D. melanogaster/, /D. virilis/,
and /D. mojavensis/ species groups. We also have ge-
nomic DNA now available for some of our most pop-
ular species including /D. miranda/, /D. eugracilis/,
/D. santomea/, /D. teissieri/, and the Hawaiian species
/D. soonae/, /D. eurypeza/, and /D. mimica/. To
see a complete list of genomic DNA available please
go to https://stockcenter.ucsd.edu/index.php?table=-
GenomicDNA .We also have several recent addi-
tions to the living collection: 1 wild-type strain of
/D. suzukii/ (donated by T. Markow): stock num-
ber 14023-0121.218 3 inbred strains of /D. pseudoob-
scura/ (from M. Noor): stock numbers 14011-0121.215
through 14011-0121.217 3 wild-type strains of /D. pseu-
doobscura/ (from W. Anderson): stock numbers 14011-
0121.218 through 14011-0121.220 3 isofemale lines of
///D. pseudoobscura/from Tucscon, Arizona, available
until 3/30/2011 (donated by T. Markow): stock num-
ber 14011-0121.214A 19 isofemale lines of D. aﬃnis, 18
from North Carolina and 1 from New York, available
until 3/30/2011 (donated by B. Longdon): stock num-
ber 14012-0141.12A
More details available on the /Drosophila/ Species
Stock Center Website at https://stockcenter.ucsd.edu/-
info/welcome.php – Maxi Polihronakis Richmond,
PhD Drosophila Species Stock Center University of Cal-
ifornia, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive # 0116 La Jolla,
California 92093-0116
Section of Cell and Developmental Biology Division of
Biological Sciences Muir Biology, Rm. 2125 or 2208
Phone: 858-246-0350
Maxi Polihronakis Richmond
<mpolihronakis@ucsd.edu >
New evolution teaching video
Dear Folks,
following the line of work that our group began twoyears ago we have added a new video that we believe
can help in tasks related to teaching evolution. You can
see it at: http://vimeo.com/20236511 or at
http://webs.uvigo.es/plantecology/-
divulgacion.en.html The new video (The hypothesis
of burglar alarm) illustrates the adaptive advantages
of bioluminiscence for a group of algae.
This video was created for free use as teaching material.
If anyone is interested, can download a version freely.
I hope you enjoy it.
PD: We appreciate that this information will be spread
where you consider being helpful.
Luis Navarro
–
Luis Navarro phone 1: (+34) 986 812619 Depto. Bi-
ologia Vegetal phone 2: (+34) 647 343097 Facul-
tad de Ciencias fax: (+34) 986 812556 As Lagoas-
Marcosende email: lnavarro@uvigo.es Universidad de
Vigo http://webs.uvigo.es/lnavarro 36200-Vigo http:/-
/webs.uvigo.es/plantecology Spain
Luis Navarro <lnavarro@uvigo.es >
Phyloinformatics NESCent
SummerCode
*** Please disseminate widely at your local institutions,
*** *** including posting to message and job boards,
so that *** *** we reach as many interested students
as possible. ***
PHYLOINFORMATICS SUMMER OF CODE 2011
http://informatics.nescent.org/wiki/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2011 The Phyloin-
formatics Summer of Code program provides a unique
opportunity for undergraduate, masters, and PhD
students to obtain hands-on experience writing and
extending open-source software for evolutionary infor-
matics under the mentorship of experienced developers
from around the world. The program is the participa-
tion of the US National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) as a mentoring organization in the Google
Summer of Code(tm) ( http://code.google.com/soc/ ).
Students in the program will receive a stipend from
Google (and possibly more importantly, a T-shirt solely
available to successful participants), and may work
from their home, or home institution, for the duration62 EvolDir April 1, 2011
of the 3 month program. Each student will have at least
one dedicated mentor to show them the ropes and help
them complete their project.
NESCent is particularly targeting students interested in
both evolutionary biology and software development.
Initial project ideas are listed on the website. These
range from visualizing viral epidemics to 3D protein
structure evolution, rich annotation for TreeBASE con-
tent, exposing phenotype observations to the Encyclo-
pedia of Life, to enhancing R packages for phylogenetic
analysis. All project ideas are ﬂexible and many can
be adjusted in scope to match the skills of the student.
We also welcome novel project ideas that dovetail with
student interests.
TO APPLY: Apply online at the Google Summer of
Code website ( http://socghop.appspot.com/ ), where
you will also ﬁnd GSoC program rules and eligibility
requirements. Each organization has a slightly diﬀer-
ent application format, and ours is at http://bit.ly/-
PhyloSoC2011-apptemplate . The 12- day application
period for students opens on Monday, March 28th, and
runs through Friday, April 8th, 2011.
INQUIRIES: phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}org. We
strongly encourage all interested students to get in
touch with us with their ideas as early on as possi-
ble. Working closely with potential mentors to develop
your project proposal greatly increases your chance for
acceptance. Do not underestimate the amount of time
it takes to develop a competitive proposal.
2011 NESCent Phyloinformatics Summer of
Code: http://informatics.nescent.org/wiki/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2011 Google
Summer of Code FAQ: http://socghop.appspot.com/-
document/show/gsoc program/google/gsoc2011/faqs
———
Karen Cranston and Hilmar Lapp National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center http://nescent.org
hlapp@nescent.org
Positive selection software
Dear community, hello you all!!!
Please does anyone remmember along OUT2010 an an-
noucement for a software to measure positive selection
for binary DNA markers? I have used such software to
test its applicability but unfortunately I lost the link to
download the software. I am not sure also if it is work-ing in a online plataform or something similar. Anyway
if some of you could help me I will be glad for the that.
Thanks in advance, Rodrigo A .Torres, D. Sc. Labo-
rat´ orio de Genomica Evolutiva e Ambiental Universi-
dade Federal de Pernambuco Brazil
“Rodrigo A. Torres” <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Positive selection software answers
Dear Robert and community,
Regarding my last post related to that software for mea-
suring positive selection at binary DNA markers, I have
found it. Please consult Mcheza workbench software
athttp://popgen.eu/soft/mcheza/ . Best regards, Ro-
drigo A .Torres, D. Sc. Laborat´ orio de Genomica Evo-
lutiva e Ambiental Universidade Federal de Pernam-
buco Brazil
Rodrigo Augusto Torres <rodrigotorres@ufpe.br >
Primate opsin sequences
Dear all,
I am preparing a bioinformatic/evolution activity for
teachers and students to be contributed to the DNA
to Darwin project ( http://www.dnadarwin.org/ ). My
goal is to have the participants analyse set of opsin
sequences to point out the evolutionary convergence
and gene duplication and divergence events. I wanted
to replicate the phylogenetic trees as in, for example,
David Hunt’s old paper (Hunt et al, Vision Res 1998),
however, most of the sequences reported there (and
later on in the literature) are not available publicly
and/or in digital format.
I was hoping that someone would save me the need
to manually re-type the sequences from the paper...
To be able to make a decent tree I am only missing
sequences of medium- and long-wave-sensitive opsins
from the chimpanzee and howler monkey. I would be
very grateful if someone would send them to me.
Thanks a million, Jarek
– Jarek Bryk |www.evolbio.mpg.de/˜bryk Max PlanckApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
Institute for Evolutionary Biology August Thienemann
Str. 2 |24306 Pl¨ on, Germany tel. +49 4522 763 287 |
bryk@evolbio.mpg.de
Jarek Bryk <bryk@evolbio.mpg.de >
RAxML visitor program
Dear Community,
The Exelixis Lab (home of RAxML) traditionally fo-
cuses on method development and computer science
aspects in evolutionary bioinformatics. Therefore, we
solicit applications for three-month research visits by
biology PhD students who face interesting methodolog-
ical problems with their data such that we can work
together toward solving these problems. We will cover
travel costs and oﬀer an internship of 500 EUR per
month for housing in Heidelberg. Note that, our lab
has recently moved to the Heidelberg Institute for The-
oretical Studies http://www.h-its.org/ . If you are in-
terested, please send a one page description of your
methodological problem, a CV, and your list of pub-
lications to Alexandros.Stamatakis@h-its.org by May
15.
All the best,
Alexis
– Dr. Alexandros Stamatakis
Group Leader: Scientiﬁc Computing Group (Exelixis
Lab & HPC Infrastructure) Heidelberg Institute for
Theoretical Studies (HITS gGmbH)
Schloss-Wolfsbrunnenweg 35 D-69118 Heidelberg Ger-
many
Tel: +49 162 8541515 (Mobile) +49 6221 533240 (Of-
ﬁce) Fax: +49 6221 533298 Skype: stamatak Email:
Alexandros.Stamatakis@h-its.org WWW: http:/-
/wwwkramer.in.tum.de/exelixis/ http://www.h-
its.org/english/research/sco/index.php Amtsgericht
Mannheim/HRB 337446 Managing Directors: Dr. h.c.
Klaus Tschira/Prof. Dr.-Ing. Andreas Reuter
Alexandros Stamatakis <alexandros.stamatakis@gmail.com >
Rhododendron samplesDear EvolDir members
I am working on the evolution of the breeding system in
/Rhododendron/, and I am looking for samples (leaves
or DNA) of diﬀerent species. I would be very grateful
if someone could help me to get the samples of the fol-
lowing rhododendron species:/Rhododendron lappon-
icum, R. ponticum, R. semibarbatum, R. championae,
R. hongkongense, R. moulmainense, R. farrerea, R.
dayaoshanense, R. westlandi, R. calendulaceum, R.
ovatum,/ /R. williamsianum, R. myrtifolium (/also
known as/R. kotschyi).
/Many thanks
Nathalie
– Nathalie Escaravage Laboratoire Evolution et Di-
versit´ e Biologique Universit´ e Paul Sabatier/CNRS
5174 Bˆ atiment 4R3 118 route de Narbonne 31062
TOULOUSE cedex 09 France
Nathalie Escaravage <nathalie.escaravage@cict.fr >
R package DEMEtics
Dear all,
We are happy to announce the release of the R package
DEMEtics 0.8-3.
It allows to evaluate the genetic diﬀerentiation between
populations based on Gst and D values.
The degree of genetic diﬀerentiation between popula-
tions is often measured by the ﬁxation index Gst (Nei,
1973). Recently, Jost (2008) showed that Gst values
do not reﬂect genetic diﬀerentiation and suggested cal-
culating D-values instead. To verify this far-reaching
statement, we programmed this R package and com-
pared Gst versus D values of two artiﬁcial populations
with known genetic divergence. The insights of this
approach are published in Gerlach et al. (2010).
DEMEtics allows to calculate the ﬁxation index Gst
and the diﬀerentiation index D pairwise between or av-
eraged over several populations according to the for-
mulas given in Jost (2008). P-values, stating the sig-
niﬁcance of diﬀerentiation, and 95 percent conﬁdence
intervals can be estimated using bootstrap resamplings.
It can be downloaded from the following webpage:
http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/DEMEtics/-
index.html To cite the package ’DEMEtics’ in
publications use:64 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Gerlach G., Jueterbock A., Kraemer P., Deppermann
J. and Harmand P. 2010 Calculations of population dif-
ferentiation based on Gst and D: forget Gst but not all
of statistics! Molecular Ecology 19, p. 3845-3852.
References
Jost, L. 2008 Gst and its relatives do not measure dif-
ferentiation. Molecular Ecology 17, 18, p. 4015-4026.
Nei, M. 1973 Analysis of gene diversity in subdivided
populations. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America 70, 12, p.
3321-3323.
Alexander-Jueterbock@web.de
SaoPaulo UNESP
VisitingEvolutionTeacher
Urgent: Open position for visiting Teacher in Uni-
versity in a Brazilian University (University of the
State S˜ ao Paulo State/UNESP), for collaborations
in Projects on Genetics and Evolution in Insects ,
mainly Drosophila or Heteroptera (Triatominae and
Pentatomidae) Period: 30 days ( the visit should oc-
cur until November/2011 Place: University of State
S˜ ao Paulo/Brazil (UNESP) located in S˜ ao Jos´ e do
Rio Preto, SP http://www.ibilce.unesp.br/ Interested
parties should submit a letter of interest and cur-
riculum vitae via email to Lilian Madi-Ravazzi (lil-
ian@ibilce.unesp.br)
APPLICATINS WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL
APRIL 03, 2011 Question regarding the position can
be directed to Dra. Lilian Madi-Ravazzi, Coordina-
tor of the Genetics Pos-graduation Program , UN-
ESP,IBILCE, lilian@ibilce.unesp.br
Profa.Dra.Lilian Madi-Ravazzi Coordenadora da
P´ os-gradua¸ c˜ ao em Gen´ etica UNESP/IBILCE Rua
Cristov˜ ao Colombo, 226 CEP: 15054-000 S˜ ao Jos´ e do
Rio Preto/SP/Brasil
Lilian Madi-Ravazzi <lilian@ibilce.unesp.br >
SMBE2011 HomePage Server
TransferDear Evoldir people,
As many of you are aware, the northeast part of Japan
was hit by a series of earthquakes. Kyoto is located in
western Japan, and thankfully was left unscathed. The
schedule for the SMBE2011 Kyoto Conference is unaf-
fected. However, periodical electricity shutdown will
take place every day, including Mishima City where
this meeting homepage server is located. We there-
fore copied ﬁles of this website in private server lo-
cated outside Japan ( http://smbe2011.com ). Original
site ( http://smbe2011.lab.nig.ac.jp/ ) will continue to
be used.
Chair, SMBE2011 Domestic Organizing Committee
Saitou Naruya Professor, Division of Population Ge-
netics, National Institute of Genetics Professor (con-
current), Department of Genetics, School of Life Sci-
ence, Graduate University for Advanced Studies Pro-
fessor (concurrent), Department of Biological Sciences,
Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo Coun-
cil Member (concurrent), Japan Science Council
Home Page: sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ ~saitou/ Postal ad-
dress: Mishima, 411-8540, Japan TEL/FAX +81-55-
981-6790/6789 Email: nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp
Saitou Naruya <nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp >
Softare fastsimcoal 1 1
fastsimcoal ver 1.1
fastsimcoal is a new and entirely rewritten, continuous-
time version of the coalescent simulation program sim-
coal2
While preserving all the simulation ﬂexibility of sim-
coal2 and keeping the same input ﬁles, fastsimcoal is
now implemented under a much faster continous-time
sequential Markovian coalescent (SMC) approximation,
allowing it to eﬃciently generate genetic diversity for
diﬀerent types of markers along large genomic regions
(i.e.>100Mb), for both present or ancient samples.
It includes a parameter sampler allowing its integra-
tion into Bayesian or likelihood parameter estimation
procedure.
fastsimcoal can handle very complex evolutionary sce-
narios including an arbitrary migration matrix between
samples, historical events allowing for population re-
size, population fusion and ﬁssion, admixture events,
changes in migration matrix, or changes in populationApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
growth rates. The time of sampling can be speciﬁed
independently for each sample, allowing for serial sam-
pling in the same or in diﬀerent populations.
Diﬀerent markers, such as DNA sequences, SNP, STR
(microsatellite) or multi-locus allelic data can be gen-
erated under a variety of mutation models (e.g. ﬁnite-
and inﬁnite-site models for DNA sequences, stepwise
or generalized stepwise mutation model for STRs data,
inﬁnite-allele model for standard multi-allelic data).
fastsimcoal can simulate data in genomic regions with
arbitrary recombination rates, thus allowing for recom-
bination hotspots of diﬀerent intensities at any posi-
tion. It also allows one to deﬁne speciﬁc recombination
distances between simulated markers.
Windows, Linux and MacOS X executable versions
of fastsimcoal are available on http://cmpg.unibe.ch/-
software/fastsimcoal/ together with example ﬁles,
benchmarks, and a detailed pdf user manual.
– Laurent Excoﬃer
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern, Switzer-
land Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31 631 48 88
Email: laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch (NEW) http://-
cmpg.iee.unibe.ch/ (NEW)
Computational Population Genetics Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm From Jan-
uary to July 2011: Sainte-Justine Hospital Research
Center, room B-454 3175 Cote Sainte-Catherine Mon-
treal, PQ Canada H3T 1C5 Tel: +1 514 345 4931 (Ext
7521)
Laurent Excoﬃer <laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch >
Software multicore TreeFinder
A new TREEFINDER version is online at:
www.treeﬁnder.de TREEFINDER is a software to
compute phylogenetic trees from molecular sequences.
New features include:
- support for multicore processors - parallel bootstrap-
ping - parallel model selection - TL extended for paral-
lel programming - more protein models: FLU, mtZOA,
EX.., EHO.., EXEHO.. - convenient installer for Win-
dowsOn multicore processors, bootstrapping and model se-
lection are now many times faster than with the old
version.
There are versions for Linux and Windows, but not yet
for Mac OS. On Macs with Intel processors one may try
the Linux version, perhaps with Linux running from an
USB or live CD.
I could have done much more, of course, and I could
have done it earlier. But I am not very much moti-
vated because I am still not being paid for my work.
Instead, they prefer supporting cheap and ﬂexible scien-
tists, people who accept the miserable salaries and move
away from their home places, people who are good at
doing what they are told. They prefer supporting peo-
ple who are very much diﬀerent from me, I feel being
discriminated! And besides I doubt that such a sci-
ence can do what it promises. There is no innovation
without freedom. I don’t want such science.
I think that that the academic system as well as other
institutions have become part of a social engineering
machinery that tries to breed a proﬁtable global soci-
ety by systematically replacing unproﬁtable people with
proﬁtable people. Proﬁtable from the perspective of the
rich who pay our politicians, but it is a way of life that
most of us don’t want. It is now high time for REAL
democracy, especially in the so-called “free” world. I
want a real choice. I want the possibility to vote against
a system that denies me a fair income and makes me
leave my home place - or replaces me with cheap for-
eigners, if I don’t agree. I want the possibility to vote
against a world in which most of the property belongs
to a very small minority of rich people on which we oth-
ers depend. Democracy cannot work if property is too
ununiformly distributed. It is necessary to limit private
property, worldwide.
I am slowly continuing the TREEFINDER project
mainly for political reasons, to present a parallel and
independent small science that proves the established
science incompetent or at least unwilling to do do what
they are supposed to.
Gangolf Jobb
Gangolf Jobb <gangolf.jobb@treeﬁnder.de >
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist
MammalEvolution66 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Volunteers needed as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Evolution and Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the
Succulent Karoo of South Africa
Open positions from July 2011 onwards
Opportunity: This is a great opportunity for anybody
who wants to get more experience in ﬁeld work relating
to evolution, ecology and behavior before starting an
MsC or PhD project.
Project: We study the evolutionary and ecological rea-
sons as well as physiological mechanisms of group living,
paternal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility
in the striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the
habitat is open, direct behavioral observations in the
ﬁeld are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students are preferred as
candidates. Applicants must have an interest in
working in the ﬁeld and with animals. Hard working
conditions will await applicants, as the study species
gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o‘ clock), and
stops its activity with dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work during
nights might also be necessary. Work in the ﬁeld will
be done for 5 days a week. Applicants must be able
to manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at night
in winter, sometimes over 40C during summer days).
Applicants must both be prepared to live for long
periods in the loneliness of the ﬁeld and to be part of
a small social group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping, marking and radio-
tracking of striped mice; direct behavioral observations
in the ﬁeld. Volunteers are also expected to help with
maintenance of the research station (water pump, solar
power, etc.)
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
1000 (around 150 US$, 110 Euro) must be paid for ac-
commodation at the research station. For students with
their own undergraduate project, a fee of Rand 1250
(approx. 190 US$, 140 Euro) per month applies. Stu-
dents must buy their own food etc in Springbok (costs
of about R 2250, approx. 340 US$ or 250 Euro/month).
Including extras (going out for dinner; shopping), you
should expect costs of about 550 US$, 450 Euros per
month. Students get an invitation letter which they
can use to apply for funding in their home country (eg.
DAAD in Germany, SANW in Switzerland).Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: At the moment we are looking for
volunteers for the period July / August to November /
December. Volunteers are expected to stay at least 2
months, but longer periods of up to 6months are pre-
ferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch.
More information under www.stripedmouse.com Con-
tact via e-mail: carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin
Research Assistant, Department of Animal Behavior,
University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057
Zurich, Switzerland.
Tel: +41 - (0)44 635 5486
Honorary Associate Professor at the School of Animal,
Plant and Environmental Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
WORKING AS A FIELD ASSISTANT IN GOEGAP
NATURE RESERVE
A report by Romy H¨ oppli, student at the University of
Zurich, who staid in Goegap June to August 2008
Blue skies without a single cloud for six weeks rocky
mountains with little vegetation yellow, orange and
pink ﬁelds of ﬂowers in whatever direction you look
small mammals, lizards and birds in our front yard
and Mountain Zebras, Springbok and Ostrich right next
door...
This was my time at the Succulent Karoo Research Sta-
tion in Goegap Nature Reserve in South Africa! During
six weeks from the beginning of July until the middle of
August I’ve been living here, studying mice, experienc-
ing nature like never before and being part of a small
community where there was always something to laugh
and joke about!
After arriving in Goegap, right the next morning my
scientiﬁc adventure in South Africa began: Setting and
checking traps, nest observations and radio-tracking
were our daily routine. While I got bitten by the mice
quite often in the beginning and my right middle ﬁn-
ger was scarred all over, I improved quickly shaking the
mice out of the traps, weighing them and checking theApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
number of the ear tag. Other duties like cleaning the
cages of the mice in the captive colony, washing the dirt
from probably several months out of the traps, painting
the new Wendy House and putting in a ﬂoor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Teaching evolutionary epigenetics
Dear friends,
I will teach a class about epigenetics to my biology stu-
dents and I would like to receive suggestions about a
good introductory text or article and movies if possi-
ble.
I was looking in google but some texts and movies are
very speciﬁc!
Thanks for any help!
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Universidade de
Taubate - Departamento de Biologia Taubate,
SP. 12030-010. E-Mail: jcvoltol@uol.com.br
ECOTROP (CNPq): http://dgp.cnpq.br/-
buscaoperacional/detalhegrupo.jsp?grupo=-
1546205IMB87W7 Curr´ ıculo Lattes: http://-
lattes.cnpq.br/8137155809735635 Orkut (“En-
sino de Ciˆ encia”): http://www.orkut.com.br/-
Main#Proﬁle?rl=ls&uid=17608429643840608483
Fotos Art´ ısticas: http://voltolini.fotos.net.br/texturas
’Siamo tutti angeli con un’ala e possiamo volare
soltanto se ciabbracciamo’
VOLTOLINI <jcvoltol@uol.com.br >
Tree of life
The Assembling, Visualizing and Analyzing the Tree
of Life (AVAToL) activity supports novel and trans-
formative approaches to the development of an inte-
grated and robust tree of life, as well as visualization
and analysis on a dynamic tree of life. This will take
place through the Ideas Lab project development andreview process. The goal of this activity is to identify
opportunities for investment to signiﬁcantly advance
the state-of-the-art in tree construction, visualization,
and analysis across the tree of life. Participants se-
lected through an open application process will engage
in an intensive ﬁve-day residential workshop to generate
project ideas through an innovative, real-time review
process. New multidisciplinary teams will form during
this workshop to engage in creative problem solving
directed at outstanding problems concerning the tree
of life. Multidisciplinary integrative approaches call-
ing for communication and interaction among diverse
scientists are key to the success of the approach. For
example, in addition to those working in systematics
and phylogenetics, AVAToL might beneﬁt from math-
ematicians and computer scientists to contribute algo-
rithms and models, bioinformaticians or genomicists to
contribute data pipelines and novel molecular charac-
ters, or statisticians and artists with an interest in novel
methods of visualization and interactive use of the tree
of life. Therefore, members of the systematics research
community, bioinformaticians, genomicists, morpholo-
gists, paleontologists, computer scientists, statisticians,
mathematicians, educators involved in training the next
generation of researchers, and representatives of any
other disciplines that might contribute important ideas
are all strongly encouraged to apply.
For more information see: http://www.nsf.gov/-
funding/pgm summ.jsp?pims id=503629&org=-
BIO&from=home Tim Collins Emerging Frontiers
Oﬃce of the Assistant Director Directorate for Bi-
ological Sciences National Science Foundation Tel.
305-348-1730 (Miami) e-mail tcollins@nsf.gov
TreeOfLife CommunitySequencing
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce a community-based se-
quencing service for annelids within the framework of
the recently awarded NSF AToL Grant “WormNet II
- Assembling the Annelid Tree of Life”. The project
is intended to resolve phylogenetic relationships among
closely related annelid species and to investigate ge-
netic diversity within selected species and complexes of
cryptic species. The service is available at no charge
to researchers who can supply appropriately preserved
material.
What we oﬀer: * Sequencing of the two mitochondrial68 EvolDir April 1, 2011
markers cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) and 16S
ribosomal RNA for approximately 3000 annelid sam-
ples, supplied by the community over a ﬁve-year pe-
riod. Samples may consist of whole specimens, tissue
samples or cleaned PCR products. Species not repre-
sented in GenBank will have priority. * Databasing of
collection information and sequence data in a central-
ized databank at Auburn University * Collaboration on
data analysis and publication * Deposition of voucher
material in museum collections, if applicable
Interested parties are requested to supply a short de-
scription of the intended project, including the ap-
proximate number and type of samples, preservation
method, permit requirements and status, shipping
needs and logistics, plans for deposition of voucher ma-
terial in museum collections (if not done by processing
lab) and expected time frame for processing, data anal-
ysis and publication. A sample proposal is pasted be-
low. Details of authorship of any resulting publications
will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. A Memoran-
dum of Understanding between the party supplying the
samples and the processing lab will outline the respon-
sibilities of each party. Interested researchers should
contact:
Anja Schulze, Texas A&M University at Galveston;
Email: schulzea@tamug.edu Or: Frank Anderson,
Southern Illinois University; Email: feander@siu.edu
Sample Proposal: My Ph.D. student is currently work-
ing on a morphological data set for the eunicid poly-
chaete genus Palola. As the species in this genus are
morphologically very similar we need to add molecular
data to analyze the phylogeny of the genus. We have a
total 40 specimens ﬁxed and preserved in 95% ethanol
which we think represent ﬁve diﬀerent species. The
specimens were collected in Belize, Panama, Palau and
the Federated States of Micronesia in 2008. Copies of
the respective collection and export permits will be pro-
vided. We will send whole specimens by regular mail in
small amounts of ethanol. We have not made arrange-
ments for deposition of voucher material in museum
collections and would appreciate if you could assist us
in this matter. We request the COI and 16S sequence
data by Sept. 2011 because the student has to submit
a manuscript draft by Dec. 2011. We may also require
assistance with data analysis.
Anja Schulze, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Marine Biol-
ogy Texas A&M University at Galveston 200 Seawolf
Parkway OCSB Bldg 3029, Rm 258 Galveston, TX
77553 Phone: 409-740-4540 Fax: 409-740-5001
schulzea@tamug.eduUBristol VolunteerFieldAssist
ClimateAdaptation
Volunteer ﬁeld assistant in ﬂowering traits and climate
change, Bristol University, UK
We are looking for a motivated, hard-working volun-
teer to assist with ﬁeldwork on Avon Wildlife Trust na-
ture reserves around Bristol, UK. This NERC-funded
project explores the ecological and evolutionary re-
sponses of plant-pollinator networks to climate change.
It is a great opportunity to be involved in exciting re-
search in evolutionary ecology, and would suit someone
considering further study or research in this area. The
applied aspect of the project, and its association with
the Avon Wildlife Trust, also provides an excellent op-
portunity for people looking for experience in the con-
servation sector.
The role of the volunteer will be to assist with the collec-
tion of ﬂoral trait data and observations of ﬂoral abun-
dance and pollinator visitation to the cowslip (Primula
veris).
Requirements: * An interest in ecological and evolu-
tionary scientiﬁc research, and natural history and con-
servation. * Enthusiasm for, and willingness to spend
long days working outside in British weather conditions.
* Ability to work carefully and meticulously, with close
attention to detail.
Previous ﬁeldwork experience and a valid driving li-
cense would also be an advantage.
Assistance is required from April - June 2011. Costs as-
sociated (travel, lunch etc.) with the ﬁeld work will be
covered. Although this is a casual position, applicants
must be reliable and committed to their role.
For further information about this position, or to ap-
ply, please email Charlotte Bickler before 21st March
charlotte.bickler@bristol.ac.uk.
Dr Jon Bridle School of Biological Sciences University
of Bristol Bristol BS8 1UD
Oﬃce B70, Lab B38/9 Tel. 0117 928 7482 Fax. 0117
331 7985
jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk http://www.bristol.ac.uk/-
biology/research/ecological/genetics/ Jon Bri-
dle <jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk > Jon Bridle
<jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
UPGMA teaching example
I recently replaced the ﬂawed example of a UPGMA dis-
tance calculation on the UPGMA Wikipedia page that
was causing problems with teaching. The new link goes
to page created and hosted By Rich Edwards and steps
through the process in a clear way for students.
In case someone messes with the Wikipedia page again,
the new link is http://www.southampton.ac.uk/-
˜re1u06/teaching/upgma/ Cheers, Joel
Dr. Joel Parker School of Biological Sciences University
of Southampton Life Sciences Building (B85) Highﬁeld
Campus Southampton SO17 1BJ
Phone: +44 023 8059 9007 Fax: +44 023
8059 4269 Email: jdparker@soton.ac.uk Website:
http://www.personal.southampton.ac.uk/jdparker/-
Webpage/
“Parker J.D.” <J.D.Parker@soton.ac.uk >
Visualizing popgen processes
Dear evoldir members,
I would like to demonstrate some population genetics
processes to the general audience. I think that some
simulation/animation will be extremely useful for that.
e.g. the spread of a beneﬁcial mutation in a population,
or drift etc. Do you know any animation/simulation
tool that can be helpful for that?
best, pavlos
Pavlos Pavlidis <pavlidis@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de >
Visualizing popgen processes
answers
Dear Evoldir members,I would like to thank you for the replies I re-
ceived. I have compiled a list of tools that
can be used teaching purposes, animations etc
of population genetics processes in the follow-
ing link: http://www.bio.lmu.de/ ˜ pavlidis/home/-
?Population Genetics Visualization Tools In case that
I will receive more replies I will update the list.
All the best pavlos
Pavlos Pavlidis
Scientiﬁc Computing Group (Exelixis Lab & HPC In-
frastructure) Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Stud-
ies (HITS gGmbH)
Schloss-Wolfsbrunnenweg 35 D-69118 Heidelberg Ger-
many
Tel: +49 163 677 3137 (Mobile) +49 6221 533264 (Of-
ﬁce)
Skype: idaios Email: pavlos.pavlidis@h-its.org
WWW: http://bio.lmu.de/ ˜ pavlidis/ Amtsgericht
Mannheim/HRB 337446 Managing Directors: Dr. h.c.
Klaus Tschira/Prof. Dr.-Ing. Andreas Reuter
Pavlos Pavlidis <pavlidis@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de >
Walter Fitch dies
Dear Brian,
very sad news came via email (see below), which is cer-
tainly worth posting at EvolDir... currently I do not
remember the address to post it directly.
Best wishes, Heiko
From: Brandon Gaut <bgaut@uci.edu >Date: March
10, 2011 11:23:16 AM PST To: bio-all@department-
lists.uci.edu Subject: Walter Fitch
Dear Colleagues -
I am sorry to report that a beloved member of our cam-
pus community, Dr. Walter Fitch, passed away in his
sleep this morning at his home in University Hills. We
will miss him dearly as a friend, as a colleague, and as
a towering intellectual presence.
Walter was born in San Diego in 1929, and earned his
Ph.D. in Comparative Biochemistry from the Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley in 1958. He was a post-
doctoral scholar at both Stanford and University Col-
lege (London) and held full professorships at the Uni-70 EvolDir April 1, 2011
versity of Wisconsin and the University of Southern
California. He came to UC Irvine in 1989 as a Dis-
tinguished Professor and later became the Chair of the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
Walter was a founding father of the ﬁeld of molecu-
lar evolution, and established methods for constructing
phylogenetic trees from amino acid and nucleic acid se-
quences. He also made contributions to virology, the
origin of life, taxonomy, genetics and molecular biology.
For his work he was elected to the National Academy of
Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
and the Linnean Society (England). He founded the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution and was
the editor-in-chief of its journal, Molecular Biology and
Evolution for its ﬁrst 10 years. He contributed mightily
not only to the intellectual process but as a mentor to
young scientists.
Walter is survived by his beloved wife, his four children
and several grandchildren. Funeral arrangements are
pending.
Sincerely,
Brandon Gaut Professor & Chair Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology
Heiko Schmidt <heiko.schmidt@univie.ac.at >
Xenostrobus securis samples
Dear EvolDir members,
I’m currently studying phylogeography of Western
Mediterranean populations of Xenostrobus securis
(Lamarck, 1819).
In order to correctly reconstruct the relationships
among recently established populations in the West-
ern Mediterranean and to disentangle historical and
contemporary factors, I would need to analyse sam-
ples from the original speciesˆ a range, which includes
brackish-waters of South-Western Australia and New
Zealand. Moreover, samples form Japan would also be
crucial to make an attempt to reconstruct the routes of
colonisation of this invasive species.I wonder if there is any EvolDir member from South-
Western Australia, New Zealand and Japan who can
send me samples of X. securis from his territory, or at
least the contact of any person and/or institution that
could help me in gathering samples.
Tahnk you,
Michele Barbieri
– Michele Barbieri Ph.D. Universit ˜A di Pisa Diparti-
mento di Biologia Unit ˜A di Biologia Marina ed Ecolo-
gia Via Derna 1, 56126, Pisa - Italy (I) Tel: +39 050
2211447 Lab: +39 050 2211407 Fax: +39 050 2211410
mbarbieri@biologia.unipi.it
Zootaxa editor needed
Dear Colleagues,
Due to increasing academic duties I must give up as
Associate Editor for Terrestrial Adephaga of the jour-
nal Zootaxa. During one and a half year it has been
a very positive experience and thus I would like to en-
courage you to accept this position and pay an excel-
lent service to the scientiﬁc community. To date, all
received manuscripts have been accepted and prepared
for the Editorial Oﬃce, so there is no pending matter
for the next Editor. Anyway, I may send any informa-
tion about procedures, amount of work (about eight-
ten manuscripts per year), etc., to interested people in
covering this position.
Please have a look on Zootaxa’s home page to see
further details ( http://www.mapress.com/zootaxa/ ).
There is no page charge and the journal publishes at
high speed approved papers.
Best regards.
Would you mind to inform me how to proceed for post-
ing? Cheers
– Prof. Jos´ e Serrano Catedr´ atico de Zoolog´ ıa Facul-
tad de Veterinaria, Universidad de Murcia. Campus de
Espinardo. 30071 Murcia (Espa˜ na)
jserrano@um.esApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
PostDocs
Berlin Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
BielefeldU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
CNRS Gif sur Yvette DrosophilaPheromones . . . . . . 72
CornellU BeePhylogeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
CzechRepublic PhylogeneticAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
HarvardU ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
InstEvolution Haifa ComputGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
IST Austria Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
IST Austria TheorySelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
JagiellonianU EcologyEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . 76
Lyon EvoDevo Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MaxPlanck 3 EvolutionaryOntology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MaxPlanck Biostatistician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
MaxPlanckInst ModellingAging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
MaxPlanckInst Ploen MouseAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . 78
MissouriBotanicGarden FernPhylogeny . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Netherlands 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Netherlands SpeciesDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Nordic TundraDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Norway 4PDF 8PhD CodEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
OregonStateU Nematode EvolutionaryGenomics . . . 82
Oxford Vietnam EvolutionEpidemiology Zoonotic-
Pathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
StAndrews PredictingEnzymeFunction . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
StAndrews SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
StanfordU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Stuttgart CropPlant PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UAlberta BeetlePopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86UArizona EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UCaliforniaRiverside SilkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UEdinburgh Cooperation and Virulence . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UExeter 2 EvolutionaryRobustness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UGeorgia InvasiveSpecies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UGuelph Biomonitoring Postdoc GraduateStud . . . 88
ULaRochelle BivalveAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
ULeicester ModellingMigration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UManchester ComputationalAnalysis DrugResistance
91
UMass Boston EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UNewHampshire MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics . 92
UOslo ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
USheﬃeld 2 EvolutionBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
USouthAustralia UrbanAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UStellenbosch InvasivePlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UVienna AnimalBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UWisconsin Madison EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics 2
97
UWisconsin-MadisonUWisconsin-Madison Evolution-
aryGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
WashingtonU HumanGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
WayneStateU TriboliumGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
WestVirginiaU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
YaleU MosquitoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Berlin Metagenomics
Post-doctoral Researcher – Environmental Metage-
nomics
Leibniz-IGB, Berlin, Germany
The Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and In-
land Fisheries (IGB) in Berlin invites applications for
a post-doctoral researcher in environmental metage-
nomics. The successful candidate will conduct research
on climate-driven changes to microbial communities
in water and sediments using experimental mesocosms
and natural ecosystems and state-of-the-art genomicfacilities. The start date is negotiable and funding is
available for up to 3 years.
The position requires a PhD in biology, microbiol-
ogy, aquatic ecology or a related ﬁeld; experience with
molecular techniques in metagenomics or similar us-
ing second-generation sequencing, and a good com-
mand of written and spoken English. For additional
information, please contact Dr Michael T. Monaghan
(monaghan@igb-berlin.de).
Applicants should submit a CV with publications, a
cover letter highlighting your experience and research
interests, and the contact details of two or more referees
to monaghan@igb-berlin.de by 15 April 2011.
monaghan@igb-berlin.de72 EvolDir April 1, 2011
BielefeldU EvolutionaryBiology
*Research Associate Position, Bielefeld University,
Evolutionary Biology*
Applications are invited for a *Research Associate *po-
sition in the *evolutionary biology* group at Bielefeld
University, Germany. The position is available in June
2011 and is initially for 3 years, with the possibility of
an extension for up to 3 additional years.
We are looking for a highly motivated young scientist
with a PhD in evolutionary biology or related ﬁelds and
preferentially with post-doc experience to form her/his
own research group in the ﬁeld of evolutionary biology.
We especially welcome applications from researchers
that have experience in one of the following areas: sex-
ual selection, sperm competition or acoustic communi-
cation. Candidates should have a proven record of re-
search and publication and should be willing to attract
their own funding.
The successful candidate is expected to take part in
teaching evolutionary biology (4 hours per week during
the semester) and in supervising both undergraduate
and graduate students. Starting date is negotiable (any
time from June 2011 onwards).
Payment is based on the German TVL E 13 scale (ap-
prox. 40,000 per year depending on experience). Biele-
feld University is an equal opportunity employer and
encourages disabled persons to apply. Disabled appli-
cants with suitable qualiﬁcations will be preferentially
considered. The university also aims at increasing the
number of women in ﬁelds where they are underrepre-
sented, and therefore encourages them to apply. Given
equal qualiﬁcations and skills between top ranked ap-
plicants, women will be preferentially considered.
Applications should be sent as a single pdf by e-mail
and should include a CV, a list of publications and a
research statement, including research plans. Please
give names and e-mail addresses of two or three aca-
demic referees who are willing to write a letter of rec-
ommendation. Applications received before the appli-
cation deadline will be given full consideration.
Applications and inquiries should be sent until March
28, 2011 to:
Professor Dr. Klaus Reinhold Evolutionary Biology
Bielefeld University 33501 Bielefeld Germanye-mail: Klaus.Reinhold“at”uni-bielefeld.de
Tel.: #49-521-106-2721
Klaus Reinhold <klaus.reinhold@uni-bielefeld.de >
CNRS Gif sur Yvette
DrosophilaPheromones
Postdoctoral Fellow LEGS (Laboratory of evolution,
genome and speciation) CNRS Location: Gif sur
Yvette, France URL: http://www.legs.cnrs-gif.fr/ Start
Date: ASAP Duration: 22 months Description: Regu-
lation of Drosophila pheromone biosynthesis by mating
and hormonal conditions
One post-doctoral position is open to work on
Drosophila pheromone regulation at the LEGS. The po-
sition is founded by an ANR grant and is available for
22 months. In Drosophila, pheromones are important
for mating and reproductive isolation. They are reg-
ulated by hormones and neurotransmitters and seem
also to be regulated by mating. We have characterized
the main biosynthesis genes. However, little is known
on their regulation. We will study pheromone produc-
tion in species of the melanogaster subgroup by gas
chromatography and the expression of the biosynthesis
enzymes will be measured by quantitative PCR.
Candidates should be highly motivated and have a
strong background in molecular biology. Experience
in drosophila genetics will be a plus. Candidate must
have excellent analytical skills, strong interpersonal and
communication skills.
Qualiﬁed candidates should send their curriculum vi-
tae and arrange for two letters of recommendation to
be sent to Claude Wicker-Thomas (wicker@legs.cnrs-
gif.fr) LEGS, CNRS, Bˆ atiment13, Avenue de la Ter-
rasse, 91198 Gif sur Yvette Cedex France. Deadline for
application is September 1, 2011. Starting date is ne-
gotiable. The review of applications will begin immedi-
ately and applicants are strongly encouraged to submit
applications as soon as possible.
Contact: Claude Wicker-Thomas Email address:
wicker@legs.cnrs-gif.fr UPR 9034 Laboratoire Evolu-
tion, G´ enomes et Sp´ eciation (LEGS) Bˆ at. 13, CNRS
Avenue de la Terrasse 91198 Gif sur Yvette Cedex Tel:
33 (0)1 69 82 37 08 Fax: 33 (0)1 69 82 37 36
Claude Wicker-Thomas <Claude.Wicker-
Thomas@legs.cnrs-gif.fr >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
CornellU
BeePhylogeneticsGenomics
Postdoctoral Position Available in Bee Phylogenet-
ics/Genomics V A postdoctoral position is available to
investigate the utility of next-generation sequencing to
develop phylogenetic data sets for bees at the family
level. The position will begin as soon as a qualiﬁed
applicant is found and is available for one year with
the possibility of extension. Qualiﬁcations: a Ph.D.
in entomology, genetics, molecular biology, or com-
parative genomics; demonstrated expertise in collect-
ing and analyzing large, next-gen data sets, including
454 and/or Illumina. Preference will be given to ap-
plicants with prior experience preparing transcriptome
samples for 454 and/or Illumina sequencing. Bioinfor-
matic skills are essential, especially in assembly, an-
notation, and alignment, and phylogenetic analysis of
next-gen data. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to provide assistance to others in the lab in both
transcriptome sequencing and analysis of transcriptome
data. The position will be based in the Department of
Entomology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY. To apply,
send curriculum vitae, statement of interest and qual-
iﬁcations, names and contact info for three references,
and up to three relevant publications to: Dr Bryan N.
Danforth bnd1@cornell.edu. Applications will be re-
ceived until a suitable applicant is found. See http://-
www.danforthlab.entomology.cornell.edu/ for more in-
formation.
Bryan N. Danforth, Professor Department of En-
tomology 3124 Comstock Hall Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853-0901 phone: 607-255-3563/FAX:
607-255-0939 email: bnd1@cornell.edu NEW lab web-
site: http://www.danforthlab.entomology.cornell.edu/
NEW CU Insect Collection website: http://-
cuic.entomology.cornell.edu/ Bryan Nicholas Danforth
<bnd1@cornell.edu >
CzechRepublic PhylogeneticAnalysis
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Tropical Ecology Uni-
versity of South Bohemia - Department of ZoologyNovotny-Basset Lab, Czech Republic Salary: Euro
27,000 - 31,000 pa Limit of tenure: up to three years
We are seeking a highly motivated and productive
postdoctoral researcher to join our international team
studying plant-insect food webs in tropical forests. The
successful applicant will develop ecological, statistical,
molecular or phylogenetic analyses of large data sets
on plant-insect food webs. In addition, s/he will be
able to develop an independent project, use our ex-
cellent tropical ﬁeld research facilities in Papua New
Guinea and collaborate closely with our partners at
the University of Minnesota and the Smithsonian In-
stitution. S/he will also contribute to the design of
further studies of food webs, help apply for grant
support and mentor graduate students. Information
on our research team: http://www.entu.cas.cz/png/cv-
novotny-vojtech-lab.html To apply, or informally en-
quire about the position contact Prof. Vojtech Novotny
(novotny@entu.cas.cz).
Review of applications will begin on April 15th and will
continue until the position has been ﬁlled. The position
will open on 1st October 2011.
Location: Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic
George Weiblen <gweiblen@umn.edu >
HarvardU ComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in human comparative regulatory
genomics at Harvard Medical School.
A position is available for a highly motivated and pro-
ductive postdoctoral researcher in the group of Bar-
bara Stranger at Harvard Medical School, in the Divi-
sion of Genetics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in
Boston, MA, USA. The speciﬁc project is ﬂexible, but
will involve high-throughput sequencing technology to
study transcriptional regulation and genome polymor-
phism data in humans. Current research in the lab
includes (1) transcriptional network and pathway anal-
ysis; (2) comparative and evolutionary genomics, es-
pecially genome evolution, sequence features, and SNP
patterns; (3) functional genomic data integration, man-
agement, and extensive data mining; and (4) detection
of disease susceptibility genes/networks.
Our group shares space and weekly lab meetings with
those of Paul de Bakker, Robert Plenge, Phil de Jager,
and Soumya Raychaudhuri, and is part of the Program
of Medical and Population Genetics at the Broad In-74 EvolDir April 1, 2011
stitute of Harvard and MIT. We participate in a wide
variety of academic programs and interactions with col-
leagues across many disciplines from multiple outstand-
ing institutions in the Boston scientiﬁc community.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
- A Ph.D. in bioinformatics, computer science, ge-
nomics, population genetics, or other relevant ﬁelds of
biology.
- Research experience (with strong ﬁrst-author publica-
tions) in computational genomics, molecular evolution,
population genetics, or a closely-related ﬁeld.
- Strong analytical, quantitative and computa-
tional/programming skills, ideally in C or C++ as well
as in scripting languages such as perl, matlab, and R.
Should be comfortable in a linux/unix environment,
with large data sets, computer clusters, and databases.
- Fluency in probabilistic modeling and computational
statistics.
- Ability to conduct independent cutting-edge research
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Experience in
analysis of DNA-seq, RNA-seq, and/or CHiP-seq data,
as well as experience constructing complex biological
networks. Candidates with a multidisciplinary back-
ground, spanning both life sciences and computer sci-
ences are especially encouraged to apply.
POSITION AVAILABLE: As soon as possible. Fund-
ing is available for a minimum of 1 year, and may be
extended upon mutual agreement. Preference will be
given to candidates with a high probability of applying
for (with the help of the PI) and obtaining independent
funding; NIH-NRSA fellowship, NSF Postdoctoral fel-
lowships, or other funding agencies.
The position will remain open until ﬁlled. Informal in-
quiries are welcomed, prior to formal application. To
formally apply, please send the following as a PDF
(other ﬁle formats will not be opened) to Barbara
Stranger (bstranger at rics dot bwh dot harvard dot
edu):
1. A curriculum vitae including the names of 3 refer-
ees willing to provide a letter of recommendation upon
request.
3. A brief statement of how your research goals ﬁt with
research on the human transcriptome
4. A brief statement of interest, ideas, and qualiﬁca-
tions for independent fellowship and/or grant applica-
tions
Barbara E. Stranger, PhD Division of Genet-
ics/Department of Medicine Harvard MedicalSchool/Brigham and Women’s Hospital 77 Av-
enue Louis Pasteur New Research Building, Room
0168B Boston, MA 02115 USA
http://strangerlab.bwh.harvard.edu/
bstranger@rics.bwh.harvard.edu
InstEvolution Haifa
ComputGenomics
A Postdoctoral and Ph.D. positions in Computational
Genomics and Phylogenetics are available at the In-
stitute of Evolution at the University of Haifa. The
research projects will be done in collaboration with the
Phylogenetics and Computational Genomics lab of Dr.
Sagi Snir. The positions are targeted to two projects:
1. The project is focused on large scale phylogenet-
ics reconstruction by means of the supertree method.
The project is based on algorithmic and computa-
tional/mathematical tools for piecing together the tree
of life. We represent trees in a special graph and ap-
ply speciﬁc graph algorithms such as MaxCut on this
graph. Preliminary results show advantages over ex-
isting methods. As these tasks are computationally
hard, we employ probabilistic approaches to obtain the
results. We investigate both theoretical and practical
questions associated with this approach.
2. Detection and analysis of horizontal gene trans-
fer (HGT) in prokaryotes. HGT is a major factor in
prokaryotic evolution and plays a signiﬁcant role in de-
veloping antibiotic resistance. We have developed sev-
eral novel methods to detect HGT where existing meth-
ods fail. The methods use evolutionary signals, unique
to HGT, that are detected by non trivial statistical ap-
proaches.
Both projects are funded by highly competitive grants
that provide high fellowships.
The successful candidates must have familiarity
with computational/mathematical biology. Essen-
tial requirements include proﬁciency in computer-
programming skills, such as C/C++/Java and script-
ing languages (e.g. Perl, Phyton), demonstrated abil-
ity in applying the devised algorithms. Duties of the
role will include algorithm development, implementa-
tion and testing by simulation and application on real
biological data.
The Institute of Evolution is world leading in broad as-
pects of evolution, both theoretical and practical. TheApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
young team of Dr. Snir is characterized by works with
both algorithmic and evolutionary appeal with ample
collaboration with other leading labs around the world.
Applicants should send a CV, a statement of research
interests and the names and contact information for 3
references. Review of the applications will start imme-
diately until positions are ﬁlled. The initial contract is
for the postdoc is one year with possibility of extension.
For Ph.D. students, the contract is for three years with
possible additional year extension.
Please send applications by email to:
Sagi Snir, Ph.D. Sagi Snir Department of Evolu-
tionary and Environmental Biology and The Insti-
tute of Evolution, University of Haifa Mount Carmel,
Haifa 31905 ISRAEL Tel: (972) 4 828-8774 Email:
ssagi@research.haifa.ac.il
sagi.snir@gmail.com
IST Austria Speciation
A postdoctoral position is available, for research into
the genetics of speciation in Antirrhinum. The project
focusses on a hybrid zone between subspecies that dif-
fer in ﬂoral morphology: plants are genotyped for major
genes that determine ﬂower pattern, and for multiple
microsatellite markers. The aim is to ﬁnd why the sub-
species remain distinct, and how they diverged from
eachother.
This is a joint project between Nick Barton at the In-
stitute of Science and Technology, Austria, and Enrico
Coen, at the John Innes Institute in Norwich ( http:/-
/rico-coen.jic.ac.uk ). The postdoc would be based at
IST; she/he would be primarily responsible for exper-
imental design and data analysis, and would also take
part in ﬁeldwork.
The Institute of Science and Technology is a new multi-
disciplinary research insttitute, located in the Wiener-
wald, just outside Vienna ( www.ist-austria.ac.at ).
There are close links with other population genetics
groups at the University of Vienna and at the Veteri-
nary University ( www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna/ ) .
The position will be available for three years; the salary
scale starts at euro 44,982 p.a. Applicants should
have a Ph.D. in a relevant area, with good quanti-
tative and computing skills, and an interest in evo-
lutionary biology. For further details, please contactnick.barton@ist.ac.at. Applications should be sent by
April 24th, and should include a CV, a statement of
research interests, and names of referees.
Nick Barton
IST Austria Am Campus 1 Klosterneuburg 3400
’phone: (43)2243 9000 3001 www.ist-austria.ac.at
Nick.Barton@ist.ac.at
IST Austria TheorySelection
A postdoctoral position is available, for research at the
interface between evolutionary biology and computer
science. The position is funded by an ERC Advanced
Grant “Limits to selection in biology and in evolution-
ary computation”, and addresses a variety of questions:
How eﬃciently can natural selection accumulate and
maintain information? How can we detect and quan-
tify this process, through observations of DNA sequence
variation? What is the relation between the concepts
of ﬁtness, information, and entropy? How can we op-
timise the performance of computational methods that
are based on selection?
The Institute of Science and Technology is a new multi-
disciplinary research insttitute, located in the Wiener-
wald, just outside Vienna ( www.ist-austria.ac.at ). The
Institute has strong computer science groups, and there
are close links with other population genetics groups in
Vienna ( www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna/ ) .
Applicants should have a Ph.D. in a relevant area
(including computer science, mathematics, statistical
physics, and population genetics), with strong mathe-
matical and computing skills, and an interest in fun-
damental research. For further details, please contact
nick.barton@ist.ac.at. Applications should be sent by
April 24th, and should include a CV, a statement of
research interests, and names of referees.
Nick Barton
IST Austria Am Campus 1 Klosterneuburg 3400
’phone: (43)2243 9000 3001 www.ist-austria.ac.at
Nick.Barton@ist.ac.at76 EvolDir April 1, 2011
JagiellonianU
EcologyEvolutionaryBiology
2 POST-DOC POSITIONS IN ECOLOGY AND EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGY AT THE INSTITUTE OF
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES, JAGIELLONIAN
UNIVERSITY, KRAKOW, POLAND
The leading Polish institute in: Behavioral ecology,
Evolutionary genetics and life histories, Physiological
and bioenergetics, Ecotoxicology and industrial pollu-
tants, Ecosystem ecology, environmental education and
management
is opening applications for
20-month fellowship programme for strongly motivated
scientists with a PhD degree in Biology, Ecology or re-
lated ﬁeld, with net-fellowship 3200 PLN per month
plus social beneﬁts, realized in one of the research
groups at the Institute of Environmental Sciences and
a monthly internship at the universities in Europe and
the U.S.
Application deadline: 29 April 2011
Detailed information about the positions, containing
proﬁle of the applicant and the application instruc-
tions are available at: www.eko.uj.edu.pl/ecology
Candidates are required to contact IES Staﬀ to dis-
cuss potential research project prior to the applica-
tion. For more information about the Institute visit:
www.eko.uj.edu.pl –
ecology@uj.edu.pl
Lyon EvoDevo Bioinformatics
Post-doctoral position for a Bio-informatician
A full time postdoctoral position for a bio-informatician
is available in the Laboratory of Evolutionary Develop-
mental Genomics (LEDG) at the Institute of Functional
Genomics, Lyon (IGFL) -France. The successful candi-
date will lead and coordinate the de novo assembly of at
least one water strider genome and contribute to func-
tional and evolutionary genomics analyses. In addition,the candidate is expected to help organize and analyze
comparative transcriptomics sequence data obtained by
next generation sequencing technology.
The general objective of the LEDG is to combine de-
velopmental genetics, transcriptomics, genomics, pro-
teomics, and evolutionary ecology for the study of an-
imal diversity. The successful candidate is encouraged
and will have the opportunity to learn and conduct gene
function analysis experiments to validate comparative
genomics/transcriptomics ﬁndings.
Water striders are semi-aquatic bugs Va monophyletic
group of predatory hemipterans that have proven to be
suitable for integrative studies. This is a species-rich
group with a large morphological diversity, particularly
in their appendages, which are shaped by adaptation to
locomotion on the water, co-evolution of the sexes, or
prey-predator interactions. In addition to being mod-
els for evolutionary ecology and population genetics, we
have established RNA interference (RNAi) technique
for gene function analysis, both for single and multiple
gene knockdowns and across multiple species. Some de-
tails can be found in our ﬁrst publication by Khila et
al. 2009, PLoS Genetics.
The position is within the IGFL of Lyon ( http://-
igﬂ.ens-lyon.fr/ ), a young but vibrant institute spon-
sored by Universite Claude Bernard, INRA, ENS, and
CNRS. Lyon is the second biggest town in France, with
a much more aﬀordable cost of life compared to Paris,
but with just as much charm.
A PhD degree in Genetics/Genomics, Bioinformat-
ics/Computational Biology, or related disciplines is re-
quired. Experience with genome assembly and annota-
tion, genomic data mining, sequence analyses are highly
desirable. Experience with basic molecular techniques
is a plus. Salary is guaranteed for 1-2 years and is de-
ﬁned by CNRS standards. The position may start as
early as June, but no later than October 2011.
Please email a cover letter, CV, and names and contact
info of three references to Dr. Abderrahman Khila at
Abderrahman.khila@ens-lyon.fr
“Abderrahman Khila, Dr”
<abderrahman.khila@mcgill.ca >
MaxPlanck 3 EvolutionaryOntology
The Laboratory of Evolutionary Biodemography within
the Max Planck Institute for Demographic ResearchApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
(MPIDR) is seeking to recruit:
Post-doctoral fellow in DEVELOPMENTAL BIOL-
OGY Post-doctoral fellow in EXPERIMENTAL IN-
VERTEBRATE BIOLOGY Post-doctoral fellow in EX-
PERIMENTAL PLANT BIOLOGY
For a project investigating the evolutionary and ge-
netic basis of mortality patterns during ontogene-
sis. For scientiﬁc background on this project, please
see: http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/-
278/1707/801 Job Description The fellow will join an
interdisciplinary project including demographers and
evolutionary biologists investigating patterns of mor-
tality over age and stage during development. Areas
of research include how age patterns of genetic expres-
sion can predict developmental mortality and the role
which sexual reproduction and recombination play in
developmental mortality. These fellowships do not re-
quire teaching.
The developmental biologist should have a strong
background in developmental biology and genetics of
drosophila.
The experimental invertebrate biologist will design and
conduct experiments with facultative asexual reproduc-
ers, (e.g, hydra and monogonont rotifers). Choice of
species is open to discussion.
Candidates in experimental plant biology will design
and conduct common garden experiments with faculta-
tive apomicts.
Required Qualiﬁcations Applicants should have a Ph.D.
or expect to have a Ph.D. at latest by October 2011.
Background in demography is not required for this posi-
tion, but a willingness to apply biological thinking and
methods to investigating demographic patterns is.
Applications should be received by April 30th, 2011.
Applications should include a letter outlining your re-
search background and agenda, a CV including infor-
mation about your education, a list of publications,
and the contact details of 3 academic references. In
order to apply please email these documents to appl-
onotog@demogr.mpg.de
The Max Planck Society is committed to employing
more handicapped individuals and especially encour-
ages them to apply. The Max Planck Society wishes
to increase the share of women in areas where they are
underrepresented, and strongly encourages women to
apply.
Levitis@demogr.mpg.deMaxPlanck Biostatistician
The Laboratory of Evolutionary Biodemography and
Laboratory of Statistical Demography within the Max
Planck Institute for Demographic Research (MPIDR)
is seeking to recruit a
Post-doctoral fellow in biostatistics, mathematical bi-
ologist or evolutionary demography
Job Description
The fellow will join a funded interdisciplinary project
including demographers and evolutionary biologists in-
vestigating pre-adult mortality patterns. The fellow
will participate in developing methods to link age- spe-
ciﬁc mortality to age-speciﬁc dynamics of gene expres-
sion, and other projects beyond the typical bounds
of statistical demography. Areas of research include
comparative analysis of mortality patterns in humans
and non-humans, and characterization of the functional
form of mortality decline over age between conception
and maturity in a wide range of populations. The fel-
lowship does not require teaching.
For background on the biological aspects of this project,
please see: http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/-
content/278/1707/801
Required Qualiﬁcations
Applicants should have a Ph.D. or expect to have a
Ph.D. at latest by October 2011. Candidates should
have a strong background in statistics, including model
identiﬁcation, and should be prepared to create innova-
tive methods for unusual datasets and questions. Back-
ground in demography is not required for this position,
but very strong quantitative skills and a willingness to
apply demographic thinking and methods to biologi-
cal questions are. Applications should be received by
April 30th, 2011. Applications should include a let-
ter outlining your research background and agenda, a
CV including information about your education, a list
of publications, and the contact details of 3 academic
references.
In order to apply please email these documents to appl-
ontog@demogr.mpg.de
The Max Planck Society is committed to employing
more handicapped individuals and especially encour-
ages them to apply. The Max Planck Society wishes
to increase the share of women in areas where they are78 EvolDir April 1, 2011
underrepresented, and strongly encourages women to
apply.
Levitis@demogr.mpg.de
MaxPlanckInst ModellingAging
The Max Planck Research Group “Modeling the Evolu-
tion of Aging” within the Max Planck Institute for De-
mographic Research (MPIDR) in Rostock, Germany, is
seeking to recruit Two Post-docs who are excited about
uncovering fundamental principles and unifying theory
of what determines the trajectories of life from birth
to death across the diversity of species. Our interdis-
ciplinary team is developing new concepts, measures,
and models of aging in a comparative framework to
shed light on the physiological and environmental de-
terminants of why some organisms age and others do
not, and how, for diﬀerent species, aging trajectories are
linked to the length of life. Approaches * Mathematical
framework of Demography * Theory underlying life his-
tory biology, population ecology and evolution * Models
of epidemiology and life cycle optimization approaches
Skills * Curious, creative, independent team worker *
Background in demography, biology, math/stats, bio-
physics, or other strong quantitative background with
burning interest in questions of evolutionary biodemog-
raphy * Fluent in a programming language, preferably
R or Matlab * Fluent in English (spoken and written)
Some key readings * Baudisch, A. (2011). The pace
and shape of ageing. Methods in Ecology and Evolu-
tion. DOI: 10.1111/j.2041-210X.2010.00087.x <http:/-
/dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.2041-210X.2010.00087.x >* Re-
bke, M., Coulson, T., Becker, P. H. & Vaupel, J. W.
(2010) Reproductive improvement and senescence in a
long-lived bird. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences 107, 7841-7846 * Metcalf, C. J. E. & Pavard,
S. (2007) Why evolutionary biologists should be demog-
raphers. Trends in Ecology & Evolution 22, 205-212
The Max Planck Society is committed to employing
more handicapped individuals and especially encour-
ages them to apply. It wishes to increase the share of
women in areas where they are underrepresented, and
strongly encourages women to apply. Please send your
application by e-mail to Dr. Annette Baudisch, at appl-
irgmea@demogr.mpg.de. PDF ﬁles are preferred.
“Papenhagen, Ute” <Papenhagen@demogr.mpg.de >MaxPlanckInst Ploen
MouseAdaptation
Postdoc for behavioural genetics and adaptation of
house mice
Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen,
Germany Group of Diethard Tautz
We will soon open a new facility that allows setting up
seminatural enclosure experiments with house mouse
populations at a large scale. Experiments will include
the analysis of the genetic basis of mate choice, the role
of imprinting in environmental adaptations, as well as
studies on the ﬁtness eﬀects of adaptive trait alleles.
We seek a postdoc who is interested to join such exper-
iments.
Generally we are using natural populations of the house
mouse to study the genetic basis of adaptations. We are
employing high level genomic approaches with in-house
facilities for microarrays, high throughput genotyping,
and next generation sequencing to detect and function-
ally characterize genes involved in recent adaptations.
We have an unique collection of house mouse popula-
tions and pursue a large variety of projects.
Owing to its history as a limnological institute, we are
located in a small town in the middle of a beautiful lake
district. Our directly neighboring larger towns are Kiel
and L¨ ubeck, and Hamburg is approx. 70km away. We
are allied with the University of Kiel and have a joint
international graduate school in evolutionary biology.
Further information on the institute can be found at:
http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/english/index.html The
position is suitable for persons who have ﬁnshed a PhD
in behavioural ecology or a general topic in evolution-
ary biology. Payment will be on the basis of a taxfree
stipend, initially for two years and extendable for a
third year.
Applications should be sent to tautz@evolbio.mpg.de
and include a complete CV, publication list, letter of
motivation and contact information for three references.
Prof. Dr. Diethard Tautz Max-Planck-Institut
fuer Evolutionsbiologie Abteilung Evolutionsgenetik
August-Thienemannstrasse 2 24306 Ploen (Germany)
Tel.: 04522 763 390 Fax: 04522 763 281
tautz@evolbio.mpg.deApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
MissouriBotanicGarden
FernPhylogeny
Applications are invited for a postdoc posi-
tion to study the phylogeny of the fern genus
Polystichum(Dryopteridaceae).This study is led by
Libing Zhang(Missouri Botanical Garden) with collab-
oration from Xinfen Gao(Chengdu Institute of Biology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences).
The postdoc will be responsible for generating DNA
sequences, developing low-copy nuclear markers, train-
inggraduate students in the lab, analyzing data, and
co-authoringmanuscripts. Applicants should have a
strong molecular systematicsexperience, preferably also
including cloning skills. Experience in ferns is not re-
quired. The postdoc iswelcome to work on his/her own
projects in addition to the study ofPolystichum. The
position is for one year with possible extension depend-
ing on performance and funding availability.
The postdoc will be based at the Chengdu Institute
of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences ( http:/-
/www.cib.ac.cn/blue cib/index.html ). The city,
Chengdu ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chengdu ),
over 2,500 years old, is rich in culture and well-
knownfor the food (Sichuan cuisine) and is close to the
Himalayas. It was recently named China’s 4th-most
livable city byChina Daily.The salary of the position
is comparable withthat of an assistant professor in
Chengdu. The ﬂights to and back from Chengdu
after theposition ends will be paid. Free housing
in Chengdu is provided. The start date isﬂexible.
Applicants should email ashort cover letter, cv, and
names and contact information of threereferences to
Libing.Zhang@mobot.org by 17 March2011.
– Li-Bing Zhang Missouri Botanical Gar-
den. Box 299, St. Louis, Missouri 63166
Tel: +1-314-577-9454; Fax: +1-314-577-9596
mobot.org/MOBOT/Research/curators/zhang.shtml
Libing Zhang <gonggashan@gmail.com >
Netherlands 2 EvolutionaryBiolStarting May 1st 2011, the Netherlands Centre for Bio-
diversity Naturalis has positions available for:
One Research Fellow in Botany One Research Fellow in
Marine Zoology
For 36 hours a week
We seek to attract Research Fellows to support our re-
search themes, namely “Morphology and evolutionary
developmental genetics”, “Phylogenetics and horizontal
genomics”, “Biogeography” and “Global Change Biol-
ogy”. You are an energetic and enthusiast scientist with
a proven track record and a clear view on how your re-
search program will contribute to the future success of
NCB Naturalis. You are eager to join our new institute,
to cooperate with the existing staﬀ of NCB Naturalis,
to study the NCB Naturalis natural history collections,
and to use the new scientiﬁc infrastructure. Develop-
ing active interactions between NCB Naturalis and our
partners in biodiversity research as well as acquisition
of externally funded projects are essential. You are ex-
pected to teach at the undergraduate and graduate lev-
els and to represent NCB Naturalis in societal and sci-
entiﬁc communities.
Requirements You have a PhD degree in systematics,
evolutionary biology, geology, or other relevant disci-
pline and at least two years, and preferably not more
than six years, of experience at the postdoctoral level.
You have excellent teaching and communications skills
in English, both written and verbal. Furthermore, you
have an excellent scientiﬁc track record (given the point
in your career) and are involved in innovative and mul-
tidisciplinary research projects in biodiversity research,
operating in an international scientiﬁc network. You
are able to engage in collaborative networks with stu-
dents and university partners as well as existing NCB
Naturalis research staﬀ.
Depending on the research theme, desired qualiﬁcations
may include: * Ample experience with modern molec-
ular techniques, advanced microscopy techniques, GIS
applications and/or web-based taxonomy. * Experience
with research popularisation. * Interest in the applica-
tions of systematic research in conservation, environ-
mental management and species identiﬁcation services.
We oﬀer A fulltime contract (36 hours per week) for
four years. A competitive salary up to a maximum of
circa EUR 59,000 gross per year depending on expe-
rience and qualiﬁcations, including holiday allowance
(8%). All our employees are incorporated into a pen-
sion fund.
Procedure You are invited to submit your application
including your curriculum vitae, a clearly focused re-
search program of maximum four pages (containing a80 EvolDir April 1, 2011
four year working plan, a proposed budget, a complete
list of publications*, your H-index, up to ﬁve keywords
describing the research area, a statement of teaching in-
terests and the names and e-mail addresses of at least
three persons that can be contacted for reference (and
who have agreed to be contacted) before March 14th
2011 by e-mail to; sollicitaties@ncbnaturalis.nl, or by
mail; Naturalis, HR department, PO box 9517, 2300
RA Leiden, the Netherlands.
For more information on the current research and
facilities, see the websites of the founding part-
ners of the NCB Naturalis, on www.naturalis.nl -
www.nhn.leidenuniv.nl - www.science.uva.nl/zma
-www.bis.wur.nl/UK/Organisation/Herbarium
Any additional information can be requested from:
Prof.Dr. E.F. Smets, scientiﬁc director Nether-
lands Centre for Biodiversity Naturalis E-mail:
erik.smets@ncbnaturalis.nl Phone: +31 71 5687 713
* Use the following categories: sci publications (incl.
citations and IF); publications in non-sci journals; pub-
lications in books or proceedings; other relevant publi-
cations.
“Hoeksema, B.” <Bert.Hoeksema@ncbnaturalis.nl >
Netherlands SpeciesDiversity
The focus of NCB Naturalis is biodiversity. NCB Nat-
uralis curates a collection of 37 million specimens; this
is one of the world’s largest natural history collections.
We present the history of our planet and the diversity
of life on Earth with permanent and temporary exhibi-
tions, educational programmes and websites. Our re-
search and education are maintained at a high academic
level. NCB Naturalis is appealing to a wide audience,
attracting over 250,000 visitors and 5 million hits to
its website annually. Co-operation with international
institutions, including three renowned Dutch univer-
sities, and the outstanding collections, are all factors
that attract hundreds of visiting scientists every year.
Expectations and ambitions for the next few years are
high. We will develop new exhibitions and plan to inte-
grate several collections. NCB Naturalis will invest sig-
niﬁcantly in infrastructure for collections and research,
including new buildings. In short, we are a develop-
ing, world-class institution, and present this exciting
opportunity for you to help us achieve our ambitions
and meet our challenges.
NCB Naturalis has a position available for aPostdoctoral Researcher
36 hours a week
For a project entitled: Determinants of species diver-
sity at 14 spatial scales in tropical micro snails from
endangered limestone habitats
This project is part of an ongoing research programme
on biodiversity dynamics on isolated limestone outcrops
in Southeast Asia. The successful applicant will carry
out the ﬁrst-ever study of species diversity in a trop-
ical land snail community that makes full use of the
advantages of working with this animal group. He/she
will sample, process, and taxonomically identify com-
munities of land snails at standard plots covering a
wide range of spatial scales, leading to a species-area-
curve that is generated by diﬀerent processes in dif-
ferent parts of the curve. Fitting observed species-
abundance-distributions to known models, in combi-
nation with assessments of local niche diﬀerentiation,
will allow the following questions to be answered: (1)
which model best explains the shapes of the species-
abundance distributions found at each of the spatial
scales simultaneously? (2) is habitat diﬀerentiation or
niche diﬀerentiation demonstrable at the smallest of
spatial scales? (3) what are the spatial scales at which
speciation contributes to patterns of species diversity?
We seek an enthusiastic researcher with a PhD in ter-
restrial invertebrate ecology and/or community ecolog-
ical theory (or similar experience), a good track record
in publishing in leading ecological or evolutionary jour-
nals, and an ability and willingness to spend up to two
months per year in the ﬁeld.
oﬀer A fulltime contract (36 hours per week) for three
years. A competitive salary up to a maximum of circa
EUR 38,000 gross per year depending on experience and
qualiﬁcations, including holiday allowance (8%). All
our employees are incorporated into a pension fund.
Procedure You are invited to submit your application
including your curriculum vitae, a complete list of pub-
lications*, and the names and e-mail addresses of at
least three persons that can be contacted for reference
(and who have agreed to be contacted) before 20 April
2011 by e-mail to: sollicitaties@ncbnaturalis.nl, or by
mail: NCB Naturalis, HR department, PO box 9517,
2300 RA Leiden, the Netherlands. We aim to ﬁll the
position before July 1st, 2011.
Information
A link to a full description of the project can be found
onhttp://science.naturalis.nl/schilthuizen
Any additional information can be requested
from: Prof. Dr. Menno Schilthuizen Nether-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
lands Centre for Biodiversity Naturalis E-mail:
menno.schilthuizen@ncbnaturalis.nl Phone: +31 71
5687 769
* Use the following categories: sci publications (incl.
citations and IF); publications in non-sci journals; pub-
lications in books or proceedings; other relevant publi-
cations.
For more information on the current research and
facilities, see the websites of the founding part-
ners of the NCB Naturalis, on www.naturalis.nl -
www.nhn.leidenuniv.nl -www.science.uva.nl/zma -
www.bis.wur.nl/UK/Organisation/Herbarium Prof.
Dr. Menno Schilthuizen Netherlands Centre for
Biodiversity ’Naturalis’ P.O. Box 9517; 2300 RA
Leiden; the Netherlands tel. (+31-0)-71-5687769;
mobile: (+31-0)-6-22030313; home: (+31-0)-71-
7370103 E-mail: menno.schilthuizen@ncbnaturalis.nl;
schilthuizen@yahoo.com Webpage: http://-
science.naturalis.nl/schilthuizen
Other aﬃliations:
* Professor for Insect Biodiversity (Uyttenboogaart-
Eliasen Endowed Chair); University of Groningen, the
Netherlands
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Nordic TundraDynamics
3-5 Post Doc and 3-5 PhD positions open at a new
Nordic Centre of Excellence ˆ aHow to preserve the tun-
dra in a warming climateˆ a (NCoE Tundra)
NCoE Tundra is a new Nordic Centre of Excel-
lence during 2011-15, funded by NordForsk, under the
scheme Top-level Research Initiative (TRI). Our scope
is to study the interaction between the ecological phe-
nomenon of top down impacts in food webs and climate-
vegetation interactions, and to integrate this perspec-
tive with the man-managed reindeer husbandry and the
S˜Ami culture dependent on it. Ultimately, we wish to
learn how the top-down impact of reindeer can be opti-
mally applied to the prevention of shrub encroachment
and woodland expansion, and the resulting negative
impacts of these processes on global climate and bio-
diversity. In the present project, we will approach thesystem of ecologic, climatologic, and socio-economic is-
sues by means of an integrated, co-Nordic CoE project,
gathering young specialists already working on diﬀer-
ent aspects of the above problem into an integrated
Co-Nordic team.
The project consists of Work Packages (listed below),
each of them dealing with their own speciﬁc ques-
tions. More information (including more detailed in-
structions for applications) can be found in our website
(www.ncoetundra.utu.ﬁ ). The duration of positions is
two years, with an option of two years of extension
(2+2). Note that since one of the aims of the NCoE
is to promote Nordic co-operation, post docs and PhD
students will not carry their research in the country of
their citizenship (i.e. a Finnish citizen cannot be placed
in Finland).
Application deadline 15th of April 2011. All ap-
plications should be sent to the following address:
ncoe.tundra@gmail.com
For queries on the diﬀerent WPs, please contact the
leaders and/or co-leaders listed below:
WP 1 Predation and the dynamics of arctic-alpine food
webs (Prof. Erkki Korpim¨ aki, Univ. of Turku, eko-
rpi@utu.ﬁ, Assoc. Prof. Tarja Oksanen, Univ. of
Turku, tarjamaarit.oksanen@gmail.com)
WP 2 Impact of vertebrate herbivory on tundra veg-
etation (Assoc. Prof. Johan Olofsson, Ume ˜A Univ.,
Johan.Olofsson@emg.umu.se)
WP 3 Impact of grazing on the dynamics of rare
arctic-alpine plants (Prof. Lauri Oksanen, Univ. of
Turku and Finnmark Univ. College, lauoks@utu.ﬁ,
lauri@hifm.no, Prof. Lars Ericson, Ume ˜A Univ.,
lars.ericson@emg.umu.se
WP 4 Moth-reindeer-birch dynamics in northernmost
Fennoscandia (Prof. Pekka Niemel¨ a, Univ. of Turku,
pnieme@utu.ﬁ, Prof. Rolf Anker Ims, Univ. of Troms¨ o,
rolf.ims@uit.no)
WP 5 Large scale impacts of herbivory on vege-
tation (Senior Res. Bernt Johansen, NORUT-IT,
bernt.johansen@itek.norut.no)
WP 6 Ecology and socio-economy of reindeer herding
systems (Prof. Bruce C. Forbes, Univ. of Lapland,
bforbes@ulapland.ﬁ, Assoc. Prof. Tove Aagnes Utsi,
Finnmark Univ. College, tove.utsi@hifm.no)
WP 7 interaction between vegetation and climate
(Prof. Jouni Pulliainen, Finnish Meteor. Inst.,
jouni.pulliainen@fmi.ﬁ)
WP 8 Abiotic processes, spatial information (GIS), syn-
thesis and policy recommendations (Prof. Lauri Oksa-82 EvolDir April 1, 2011
nen, Univ. of Turku, lauoks@utu.ﬁ and Prof. Jukka
K¨ ayhk¨ o, Univ. of Turku, jukkay@utu.ﬁ)
Elina Koivisto <elina.koivisto@utu.ﬁ >
Norway 4PDF 8PhD CodEvolution
8PhD 4Postdoc NordicCountries AtlanticCod Ecology Economy Evolution
8 PhD- and 4 Postdoc positions are now available at
The Nordic Centre for Research on Marine Ecosystems
and Resources under Climate Change (NorMER) V A
Nordic Centre of Excellence.
Research areas: Ecology, Evolutionary biology and
Economy
NorMER ( www.normer.org ) is a new Nordic Centre of
Excellence funded by Nordforsk, on behalf of the Top-
Level Research Initiative (TRI). NorMER consists of 45
researchers from 10 research units situated within all of
the Nordic territories: Norway, Sweden, Finland, Aa-
land, Denmark, Faroes, Greenland and Iceland. This
collaborative project combines the expertise of interna-
tionally recognized research teams to implement a mul-
tidisciplinary research strategy to explore the biologi-
cal, economic, and societal consequences of global cli-
mate change on ﬁsheries resources in the Nordic region,
with a primary focus on the Atlantic cod. NorMER will
achieve this through a unique program of primary re-
search, for which the members will collaborate in train-
ing a total of 15 new PhD students (8 announced in
2011, 7 in 2012) and 5 Postdocs (4 announced in 2011,
1 in 2012) through joint projects that integrate biology,
economics, industry and policy.
All 12 positions are announced here: http://-
www.vacancies.normer.org/ . Applicants from all coun-
tries are encouraged to apply. We also encourage all
candidates to apply for more than one position, if pos-
sible.
Application deadline: 30th March 2011. Expected start
date: 1st August 2011 For questions about the network,
please contact normer-post@bio.uio.no
– Regards,
Olaf Kristian Sund Higher Executive Oﬃcer
Olaf Kristian Sund <o.k.sund@matnat.uio.no >OregonStateU Nematode
EvolutionaryGenomics
The laboratory of Dee Denver at Oregon State Univer-
sity is searching for a Faculty Research Assistant (FRA)
or Postdoctoral Scholar; position available 06/11 to in-
vestigate evolutionary genomic processes using Illumina
high-throughput DNA sequence data. Experience in
computer programming required, speciﬁc knowledge in
Perl and R applications, Knowledge Unix/Linux oper-
ating systems preferred. BA/BS required for FRA ap-
plicants; PhD required for Postdoc applicants. Postdoc
applicants would be expected to pursue independent
funding before or during an initial one-year of support
on the PI?s grant funds. Include cover letter of appli-
cation, CV, and the contact information for three pro-
fessional references (email addresses preferred). For full
consideration apply by 4/15/11. OSU in an AA/EOE
employer.
The Denver lab primarily studies genomic evolutionary
processes in nematodes. We study the evolution of both
mitochondrial and nuclear DNA in diverse interesting
nematode genera including Caenorhabditis (includes
the famous model C. elegans), Meloidogyne (plant par-
asites), Panagrolaimus (free living), Strongyloides (ani-
mal parasites) and Xiphinema (plant parasites). We are
currently funded by NIH and USDA. We take advan-
tage of the superb resources oﬀered by the OSU Center
for Genome Research & Biocomputing ? this facility
oﬀers Illumina/Solexa (new HiSeq2000 system in addi-
tion to the GAII) and Roche/454 sequencing.
Denver Lab website: http://-
denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/ For inquiries, contact
Dee Denver: denver@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Full job description and instructions for applying avail-
able at:
jobs.oregonstate.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindX186
–
Dee R. Denver Assistant Professor Department
of Zoology Oregon State University 3029 Cordley
Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 PH: 541-737-3698 FX:
541-737-0501 http://denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/
denvedee@cgrb.oregonstate.eduApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 83
Oxford Vietnam
EvolutionEpidemiology
ZoonoticPathogens
The Oxford University Clinical Research Unit in Viet-
nam —
The Oxford University Clinical Research Unit (OU-
CRU) in Ho Chi Minh CIty, Vietnam aims to have a
positive and signiﬁcant impact on global health and, in
particular, the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
infectious diseases. This is achieved through an inte-
grated, long-term clinical and laboratory research pro-
gramme, including capacity building and training in
Vietnam and other countries in the region. The pro-
gramme is currently implemented by a dedicated team
of 200 scientists, technical and administrative staﬀ in
Vietnam and other countries in Asia. The research pro-
gramme focuses on clinical trials, central nervous sys-
tem infections, dengue fever, enterics, malaria, respi-
ratory infections, tuberculosis and zoonoses with units
in Vietnam, Indonesia, China and Nepal. In Ho Chi
Minh City, OUCRU operates from within the Hospi-
tal of Tropical Diseases and comprises state-of-the-art
laboratory facilities, including a containment suite for
BSL3 microbiology and virology, and Special Animal
Pathogen Operations level 4 (SAPO4).
For more information please visit: www.oucru.org Post
Description —
OUCRU has an ongoing collaboration with the Aca-
demic Medical Centre of the University of Amsterdam,
the Netherlands and this post has been created by
a collaborative project on antimicrobial resistance in
agriculture and its potential eﬀects on humans. The
project is funded by ZoNMW/WOTRO (the Nether-
lands), however, the post holder is also expected to par-
ticipate more broadly in the diverse research activities
of OUCRU.
The successful candidate will be an independent post-
doctoral researcher who will help OUCRU develop new
research initiatives on zoonotic diseases and the animal-
human interface. Initial responsibilities will be to over-
see and coordinate a project on antimicrobial drug re-
sistance and antibiotic usage in small scale poultry pro-
duction units in southern Vietnam, with speciﬁc focus
on antibiotic resistant non-typhi Salmonella and E. coli
in poultry and humans.Responsibilities and Duties — Post holder will report to
Dr Juliet Bryant (jbryant@oucru.org), head of zoonosis
research at OUCRU.
Duties will include:
1. oversee and coordinate implementation of the An-
timicrobial Resistance (AMR) project research; 2. su-
pervise a PhD student and Research Assistant for
project-related activities; 3. manage project activities
including animal and human sampling, and laboratory
analyses; 4. coordinate and support surveys among
farmers and veterinary drug sellers; 4. coordinate data
management and supervise data analysis; 5. contribute
to the publication of research ﬁndings in high quality
journals 6. ensure optimal communication between re-
search partners collaborating in the project
Selection Criteria — We are seeking a highly motivated
and independent researcher with commitment to work-
ing on zoonotic and animal diseases, particularly those
impacting food animal production.
Essential
1. A PhD and substantial research experience in one of
the following areas: epidemiology, applied microbiology
or microbial ecology, animal science, virology, vaccinol-
ogy, mathematical modeling, or evolutionary biology 2.
A strong publication record with documented examples
of work at the level of ﬁrst author in a leading refer-
eed journal 3. Ability to work eﬀectively independently,
as part of a team and in a multicultural environment
4. Proven interest in agriculture sciences, veterinary
epidemiology and/or zoonotic diseases 5. Experience
conducting research on infectious diseases 6. Ability to
manage the day-to-day running of a research project
including assisting and guiding the work of junior re-
searchers and PhD students 6. Proven communication
skills including the ability to present work at interna-
tional symposia and to a non-specialist audience
Desirable
7. Previous experience conducting research in an inter-
national environment, preferably in Asia or in develop-
ing countries; 8. Experience working in an infectious
diseases diagnostic or research laboratory 9. Experi-
ence contributing to the development of new research
projects and/or areas of research 10. Fieldwork work
experience, particularly in surveillance or outbreak re-
sponse
Salary — University of Oxford (UK) grade 7, 29,099 -
35,788 GBP per annum, depending on experience.
Duration — Three years.
Contact — Dr Juliet Bryant, jbryant@oucru.org84 EvolDir April 1, 2011
mboni@oucru.org
StAndrews
PredictingEnzymeFunction
Postdoctoral Research Fellow: Machine Learning Ap-
proaches to Predict Enzyme Function
£29,972 pa
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/ACI857/research-fellow-
in-chemistry/ This project is being undertaken by
Dr John Mitchell’s research group in the modern
Biomedical Sciences Research Complex. This compu-
tational project is sponsored by the Biotechnology and
Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC). In this
work, we will use machine learning methods to predict
the catalytic functions and chemical mechanisms of
enzymes. The key idea in our work is to identify the
reaction mechanism, if any, catalysed enzymatically by
a protein structure. The possible reaction mechanisms
considered are the 300 or so distinct entries in our
database MACiE. Our principal machine learning
method is Random Forest, simply a forest made out of
many diﬀerent randomly created decision trees. After
predicting the reaction mechanisms, we will apply
chemoinformatics, docking and virtual screening to
suggest substrates for the enzyme reactions identiﬁed.
We seek to appoint a highly computer literate postdoc-
toral scientist with a PhD in the Life, Chemical, Phys-
ical, Computer or Mathematical Sciences. Knowledge
of, and experience in, at least one of the following areas
is required for this position: bioinformatics, chemoin-
formatics, machine learning, computational chemistry,
biological or pharmaceutical chemistry. A high level
of computer literacy is expected and experience of sci-
entiﬁc computing, preferably including some program-
ming skills, would be an advantage. The position is
available for three years from 1 June 2011, or as soon
as possible thereafter.
Informal enquiries to Dr John Mitchell, jbom@st-
andrews.ac.uk
Closing Date: 11 April 2011 Interview Date: Week
commencing 25 April 2011
Please apply online at https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/welcome.aspx Please quote ref: JC7960
– Dr John Mitchell Biomolecular Sciences University of
St Andrews North Haugh St Andrews Scotland KY169ST United Kingdom +44-(0)1334-467259
jbom@st-andrews.ac.uk
StAndrews SexualSelection
The evolution of gene expression in response to sexual
selection.
A three year postdoctoral research assistant position is
available to work with Mike Ritchie at the University
of St Andrews (Scotland) on a NERC-funded research
project, collaborative with Rhonda Snook of the Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld and Andy Cossin at the University
of Liverpool. The project involves next-generation se-
quencing approaches to examine the evolution of ﬂy
populations under experimentally manipulated sexual
selection regimes.
The candidate needs to have a PhD in a relevant
subject, Evolutionary Biology or Genetics. Experi-
ence with basic molecular genetics is essential and with
Drosophila and/or bioinformatics desirable. The candi-
date will co-ordinate this collaborative research project
and take the lead in data collection, collation and anal-
ysis, in collaboration with researchers or technicians in
the other laboratories.
Duration: 36 months. Start Date: 1st June 2011 or by
negotiation. Appointment subject to UK work permit
requirements.
Informal enquiries can be made to Mike at mgr@st-
andrews.ac.uk http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
ritchielab/ Further details and the application
materials are available at: https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/welcome.aspx , Ref No. JC7978
Clunky direct link: https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ViewVacancy.aspx?enc=-
mEgrBL4XQK0+ld8aNkwYmAnOqoJIvp8sIBBYfSiya9JEHSlD3mAaDE3jVERi3x4ZIlXVJMWGekUa6MSVrj5HawPLEASE
NOTE THAT ALL APPLICATIONS MUST BE
MADE THROUGH THE OFFICIAL UNIVERSITY
CHANNELS, NOT TO MIKE RITCHIE.
Mike Ritchie Acting Head School of Biology Dyers Brae
House University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife Scot-
land KY16 9TH
Phone: 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495 Fax: 0 (44 out-
side UK) 1334 463366
Websites: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/ritchielab/
http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/supplemental/ritchie/-
papers.aspx Michael Ritchie <mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 85
StanfordU EvolutionaryGenomics
Stanford University, Evolutionary genomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Hunter
Fraser. The lab will combine experimental and compu-
tational approaches to studying the evolution of gene
expression within and between species. Our long-term
goals are to better understand 1) how new mutations af-
fect gene expression; 2) what selective pressures act on
these mutations; and 3) how changes in gene expres-
sion contribute to the evolution of other phenotypes.
The project details are ﬂexible, but may focus on an-
alyzing genome-wide gene expression (RNA-seq) data
from multiple species. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a strong background in computational bi-
ology, molecular evolution, and statistics. ˆAFamiliarity
with analysis of high-throughput sequencing data or
quantitative/statistical genetics is a plus.
Stanford is an extremely stimulating environment, with
many labs engaged in research on evolution and ge-
nomics. There is plenty of opportunity to interact
with other labs, for example in the weekly evolution-
ary genomics joint lab meeting that includes labs from
several departments. To apply, please email a CV,
brief description of research experience and interests,
and contact information for at least two references to
hbfraser[at]stanford.edu. The position can begin imme-
diately. ˆASalary and beneﬁts are very competitive. For
further information please see the labˆ as website, http:/-
/www.stanford.edu/ ¨Ehbfraser/ . Hunter Fraser Assis-
tant Professor Department of Biology Stanford Univer-
sity Stanford, CA hbfraser[at]stanford.edu
Hunter Fraser <hbfraser@stanford.edu >
Stuttgart CropPlant PopGenet
The research group ˆ aCrop Biodiversity and Breeding
Informaticsˆ a invites applications for the position of a
RESEARCH ASSOCIATE (Senior Postdoc)
We are looking for a highly motivated scientist who
wants to develop his or her independent research pro-
gram in population or quantitative genetics of cropplants and their wild ancestors. We are particulary
interested in a scientist with an interest in exploring
new approaches to investigate genetic and phenotypic
diversity in crop plant domestication and adaptation,
and to utilize this diversity in breeding methods such
as genomic selection.
Candidates with a Ph. D. degree and possibly some
post doc experience in plant breeding, bioinformatics,
population genetics, quantitative genetics or evolution-
ary biology are welcome to apply. Background knowl-
edge in computer programming and statistical analy-
sis are required. Previous experience with modern ge-
nomics is highly advantageous. We expect candidates
to have a record of publications and to be willing to at-
tract their own funding from national and international
sources.
The successful applicant will be initially appointed for
three years with the possibility of extension for another
three years. The starting date can be as early as 1 June
2011. Salary will be according to the German govern-
ment salary scale (TV-L E13) and depends on previous
experience, age and marital status. The position in-
volves 4 hours of teaching during the semester (entirely
in English), and the supervision of Ph.D., graduate and
undergraduate students. There is the possibility to ob-
tain the Habilitation. The University of Hohenheim is
an equal opportunity employer. Women and members
of minority groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
The University of Hohenheim is located on a beautiful
campus in the South German city of Stuttgart and is
well integrated into national and international research
networks. Our research group is member of the Hohen-
heim Competence Center of Plant Breeding with a crit-
ical mass of researchers working on European and trop-
ical crops, which provides ample opportunities for col-
laboration. Further information can be obtained from
http://evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de or from the contact
information below.
Please send your application (Cover letter, CV, pub-
lications, statement of research interests, addresses
of at least two references) until 18 April 2011
as a single PDF document to B¨ arbel Hessenauer
(baerbel.hessenauer@uni-hohenheim.de).
Dr. Karl Schmid Professor of Crop Biodiversity and
Breeding Informatics Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed
Science and Population Genetics Fruwirthstrasse 21 D-
70599 Stuttgart, Germany Phone: +49 711 459 23487
Email: karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Prof. Dr. Karl Schmid F.W. Schnell Endowed
Professorship of Crop Biodiversity and Breeding In-
formatics Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed Science86 EvolDir April 1, 2011
and Population Genetics (350) University of Ho-
henheim Fruwirthstrasse 21 D-70599 Stuttgart Ger-
many Phone: +49 711 459 23487 Fax: +49
711 459 22343 Email: karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
http://www.evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de Karl Schmid
<karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de >
UAlberta
BeetlePopulationGenomics
Post-Doctoral Position: Population Genomics of the
Mountain Pine Beetle System
Department of Biological Sciences - University of Al-
berta
Position duration - until September 30, 2012
Closing date - open until ﬁlled
The Department of Biological Sciences has an opening
for a Post Doctoral Fellow in the area of Population Ge-
nomics. You will become an integral member of a fast
moving, multidisciplinary team researching the Moun-
tain Pine Beetle (MPB) infestation in Western Canada.
This research will be conducted in the laboratory of Dr.
Felix Sperling and will involve collaboration with other
project researchers.
The main focus of the project will be to detect possible
signatures of genetic selection by analysis of a large sin-
gle nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) dataset generated
for mountain pine beetles collected in diﬀerent locali-
ties of the leading edge of the current outbreak. Similar
data are being generated for the pine host and fungal
associates of mountain pine beetle, and the candidate
may have the opportunity to be part of the team that
examines relationships between the three datasets.
The successful candidate will possess a doctoral degree
in population genetics, quantitative genetics, molecu-
lar biology, bioinformatics, or a closely related ﬁeld.
Knowledge and experience in single nucleotide poly-
morphisms (SNPs), manipulation of large datasets, as-
sociation and QTL analyses, and statistics (particularly
spatial analyses) is preferred. Related experience with
programming language (i.e. Ruby, Perl, Python, Java),
insects and/or plants would be useful. You will be re-
sponsible for:
1) Association analysis of mountain pine beetle and po-
tentially of interacting biological organisms using iden-
tiﬁed SNPs;2) Preparation of manuscripts on this research.
Interested individuals should submit an application
package (cover letter and curriculum vitae) and arrange
to have three sealed letters of reference forwarded to
the address below. In accordance with University of
Alberta Policy, applicants should have no more than
three years’ post doctoral experience. Salary is com-
mensurate with experience. Electronic applications are
preferred.
Matt Bryman - Project Manager
The Tria Project: Genomics enhanced forecasting of
lignocellulose feedstock for bioenergy
CW 405 Biological Sciences Building
University of Alberta
Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9
Email: mbryman@ualberta.ca
We thank all applicants for their time and eﬀort, but
only those selected for an interview will be contacted.
Additional Information
Dr. Felix Sperling is a Professor in the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences and specializes in popula-
tion genetic surveys, species delimitation and related
analyses in insects, including bark beetles. ( http://-
www.biology.ualberta.ca/faculty/felix sperling/ )
Department of Biological Sciences - http://-
www.biology.ualberta.ca Tria Project website:
http://www.thetriaproject.ca
Postdoctoral Fellows Oﬃce - http://-
www.postdoc.ualberta.ca Matt Bryman
Project Manager
THE TRIA PROJECT: Mountain Pine Beetle System
Genomics
<http://www.thetriaproject.ca/ >
Phone: 780-492-1990
mbryman@ualberta.ca
UArizona EvolutionaryPhysiology
A postdoctoral position in ecological and evolution-
ary physiology is available to study the individual-level
physiological tradeoﬀs between ﬂight and fecundity in
the hawkmoth Manduca sexta. The study combinesApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 87
ﬁeld, greenhouse and lab experiments with state of the
art ﬂow-through respirometry, carbon stable isotope
techniques, ﬂight energetics and micro-surgery.
The postdoc is available for three years with a nego-
tiable start date of April 2011. Starting salary $34,000
USD.
Minimal requirements: PhD in physiology, ecology or
evolutionary biology (or related ﬁelds), competitive
publication record, extensive experience in insect phys-
iology and respirometry, strong statistical ability.
Applications should be submitted through the
University Human Resources at the URL: https:/-
/www.uacareertrack.com/applicants/jsp/shared/-
frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=1300730416326and enter
job # 46789. Applicants should also send an email
directly to goggy@email.arizona.edu
For more information please contact Goggy Davidowitz
at: goggy@email.arizona.edu Goggy Davidowitz, De-
partment of Entomology, University of Arizona
Goggy Davidowitz Assistant Professor Department of
Entomology University of Arizona
“Davidowitz, Goggy - (goggy)”
<goggy@email.arizona.edu >
UCaliforniaRiverside SilkEvolution
UCaliforniaRiverside SilkEvolution
A postdoctoral opportunity is available to work on the
evolution of spider silk. A broad range of projects can
be pursued at or across the level of genes, proteins,
organisms, and phylogeny. The ideal candidate will
have expertise and strong interests in one or more of
these areas: molecular evolution, functional genomics,
biomechanics, bioinformatics, arachnology. A PhD is
required and initial appointment is for one-year. To ap-
ply, email (to cheryl.hayashi@ucr.edu) your CV, state-
ment of research interests and experience, representa-
tive reprints, and contact information for three refer-
ees. Review of applications will begin promptly and
continue until the position has been ﬁlled.
Sincerely, Cheryl Y. Hayashi Professor of Biology Uni-
versity of California, Riverside
cheryl.hayashi@ucr.eduUEdinburgh Cooperation and
Virulence
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (2yrs funding)
*Ecological and evolutionary dynamics of microbial co-
operation and communication * A postdoc position is
available in Sam Brown’s lab at the University of Edin-
burgh. The speciﬁc project is ﬂexible, but will involve
the study of microbial social dynamics on both ecologi-
cal and evolutionary timescales, with a focus on quorum
sensing and/or QS regulated traits.
Current research in the lab combines theoretical, com-
putational and experimental approaches to the study
of microbial social evolution, and consequent virulence.
Key themes include the interface of microbial social-
ity with (1) molecular dynamics (Kummerli & Brown
2010), (2) multi-trait interactions (Brown & Taylor
2010), (3) multi-species interactions (Lysenko et al.
2010), (4) mobile genetic elements (Nogueria et al.
2009) and (5) novel therapies (Brown et al. 2009).
Preference will be given to applicants with a back-
ground in microbial experimental evolution and/or
molecular microbiology. Start date no later than
October 2011. Informal enquiries can be made to Sam
Brown ( sam.brown@ed.ac.uk). Application details
are available via http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3014102 Applicants must have, or shortly obtain a
PhD.
Sam Brown *new address* Centre for Immunity,
Infection and Evolution University of Edinburgh
West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JT http://-
ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/staﬀ/academics/-
brown s.htm sam.brown@ed.ac.uk
sampaulbrown@gmail.com
UExeter 2 EvolutionaryRobustness
Two Postdoctoral Researcher Positions on Deciphering
and Applying Evolutionary Design Principles Underly-
ing Robustness88 EvolDir April 1, 2011
These posts, available immediately, will be part of a
multidisciplinary project led by Dr. Orkun S. Soyer,
Dr. Ozgur Akman and Prof. Declan Bates. The suc-
cessful applicant will contribute towards research re-
lated to the project entitled “Evolving controllers and
controlling evolution” and funded by the EPSRC.
In this project, we will combine tools and ideas from
the ﬁelds of control theory and evolutionary theory to
study speciﬁc molecular systems in order to derive evo-
lutionary design principles underlying their robustness.
In particular, we are interested in understanding which
evolutionary conditions can result in the emergence of
robustness in these systems and through what kinds
of molecular or network-level mechanisms it is under-
pinned. We will then combine this evolutionary insight
with in silico evolution approaches to design robust syn-
thetic systems and engineering applications, in partic-
ular in aerospace control engineering.
For further information and application de-
tails, please see the online ad at: https:/-
/jobs.exeter.ac.uk/hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/-
run/ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID=-
1971873ZNQ&WVID=3817591jNg&LANG=USA
To apply please send your application CV, covering
letter and the details of three referees to Dr Orkun S.
Soyer at O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk quoting the reference
number N3289 in any correspondence.
best regards, orkun soyer.
Orkun S. Soyer, PhD Lecturer in Systems Biology
Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences Uni-
versity of Exeter Tel: +44 (0)1392 723615 URL:
http://people.exeter.ac.uk/oss203/ “Soyer, Orkun”
<O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk >
UGeorgia InvasiveSpecies
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA DEPARTMENT OF
GENETICS
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN INVASIVE
SPECIES PHYLOGEOGRAPHY
A postdoctoral position is available in my lab.
Although I am particularly interested in an in-
dividual with skills in phylogeography, I would
also consider an individual more broadly interested
in the ecological genetics of invasive species (see
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/mauriciolab/ andhttp:/-
/www.genetics.uga.edu/pire/ for more details).I am interested in hiring someone with some back-
ground in evolutionary or ecological genetics and with
good bench skills. The ideal candidate will be orga-
nized, pay close attention to detail, and be able to work
both independently and in collaboration with others.
In particular, the candidate may work closely with Dr.
Travis Glenn on next-gen approaches. Independent side
projects on the part of the postdoc are encouraged and
will be supported intellectually and ﬁnancially if feasi-
ble. A Ph.D. is required.
There also may be an opportunity for this postdoc to
gain independent teaching experience (for extra pay) by
teaching a small, 1-credit, discussion section for our un-
dergraduate evolutionary biology course each semester.
The start date is late summer/early fall 2011, although
there is some ﬂexibility in start dates. The initial
appointment is for one year, with an additional year
of funding available conditional on satisfactory perfor-
mance. The annual salary for this position will be com-
mensurate with experience, and includes beneﬁts. The
University of Georgia is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer and I encourage applications from candidates
from groups underrepresented in the life sciences.
Please send me an e-mail (mauricio@uga.edu) with the
following information: a statement detailing your inter-
est and qualiﬁcations for the position, a CV, and the
names and contact information for 2 people who could
write on your behalf.
Rodney Mauricio Department of Genetics University of
Georgia Athens, GA 30602-7223
mauricio@uga.edu
UGuelph Biomonitoring Postdoc
GraduateStud
Project Manager, Postdoc and Graduate Student po-
sitions available at Biodiversity Institute of Ontario,
University of Guelph
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario based at University
of Guelph, Canada, is leading a large-scale project in
the use of Next Generation Sequencing for biodiversity
analysis from various environmental samples. We are
currently seeking applications for various positions:
1. Project Manager (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario), starting May-June 2011. Qualiﬁcations: MSc
or PhD in biology (or computer science), minimumApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 89
2 years of experience in large-scale project manage-
ment and budgeting (accounting), articulate and well-
organized. Being computer/web savvy is an asset as
the project manager will be in charge of updating
the project website. We would also consider excep-
tional candidates who would like to pursue an alter-
native career path in science management after their
PhD/postdoc. Duration: 3 years (initial contract for
one year).
2. Postdoctoral Fellow (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario, Hajibabaei group), starting July-September
2011. PhD in molecular evolution, phylogenetics,
molecular ecology, population genetics, bioinformatics
or related ﬁelds. Excellent theoretical knowledge and
experience in comparative sequence data analysis for
biodiversity, evolutionary or ecological analysis, prefer-
ably using NGS data. Experience in using Linux and
Python (or similar scripting languages) and knowledge
of R would be desirable. Duration: 3 years (initial con-
tract for one year).
3. GIS Software Developer (based at Dalhousie Univer-
sity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Beiko group), starting May-
June 2011. BSc or MSc in Computer Science, Bioin-
formatics or a related ﬁeld. The scope of the project
would also permit an applicant with a PhD to carry
out research in the context of a postdoctoral position.
Must be proﬁcient in Python and C++, and ideally ex-
perienced in OpenGL and graphical software develop-
ment. Experience with previous development projects
is essential. Duration: 3 years (initial contract for one
year).
4. Postdoctoral Fellow (based at University of Guelph,
Ontario, Hajibabaei group), starting June-Sept, 2011.
PhD in biological sciences preferably in molecular ecol-
ogy, phylogenetics or related ﬁelds with expertise in
molecular method development/optimization. Expe-
rience in soil biodiversity/ecology is highly desirable.
Duration: 2 years (initial contract for one year).
5. Graduate Student positions (MSc/PhD, 3 positions)
based at University of Guelph, Department of Integra-
tive Biology (2 positions) and Dalhousie University, De-
partment of Biology (1 position). These positions in-
volve the use of NGS data to address evolutionary and
ecological questions in arthropod, plant and soil bio-
diversity. Graduate students will be supervised jointly
by members of Biomonitoring 2.0 project and will gain
insights in using NGS genomics approaches as well as
bioinformatics tools to develop and explore their own
hypotheses in ecology and evolutionary biology.
6. MSc Student position at the University of New
Brunswick, Canadian Rivers Institute / Aurora Re-
search Institute. This position will examine the useand application of Biomonitoring 2.0 techniques by lo-
cal communities in Canada’s North.
For each position, please submit your CV (includ-
ing names and contact information of 3 references)
and a cover letter to Dr. Mehrdad Hajibabaei (mha-
jibab@uoguelph.ca). Please indicate the title of the po-
sition you are applying for in the subject line of your
email. We will start reviewing the applications on April
15, 2011.
Mehrdad Hajibabaei, PhD Assistant Professor Bio-
diversity Institute of Ontario & Integrative Biology
University of Guelph Guelph, ON N1G 2W1 Canada
Phone: 519-824-4120 x52487 Fax: 519-824-5703
Email: mhajibab@uoguelph.ca www.ibarcode.org/-
hajibabaei www.biodiversity.ca www.dnabarcoding.ca
<http://www.dnabarcoding.ca/ >
Mehrdad Hajibabaei <mhajibab@uoguelph.ca >
ULaRochelle BivalveAdaptation
Post-doctoral Fellow
Laboratoire ˆA/lessmuch Littoral, Environnement et
Soci˜Ac/circlecopyrtt˜Ac/circlecopyrtsˆA/greatermuch, CNRS ˆ a ULR UMR 6250,
˜Ac/circlecopyrtquipe AMARE
Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde La Rochelle
Contact : Prof Pascale Garcia (CNRS ˆ a ULR UMR
6250, pgarciam@univ-lr.fr)
The genetic basis and history of adaptive diﬀerentiation
in Macoma balthica, a high gene ﬂow marine bivalve
species
Keywords: Marine Genomics - Demographic Patterns -
Adaptive diﬀerentiation.
The laboratory ˆA/lessmuchLittoral, Environment and Soci-
eties ˆA/greatermuchat the University of La Rochelle seeks a mo-
tivated and productive postdoctoral researcher to work
on the genetic basis of adaptive diﬀerentiation in ma-
rine bivalves. LIENSs is a Research Unit (CNRS /
University of La Rochelle), which includes expertise in
various scientiﬁc ﬁelds including environmental sciences
(biology, ecology, geophysics), humanities (geography),
chemistry and biotechnology. Our primary object of
study is the littoral. It includes some sixty teachers and
researchers, twenty administrative and technical staﬀ,
and almost sixty doctoral students under the Research
Training. The scientiﬁc activities of the unit receive90 EvolDir April 1, 2011
signiﬁcant support from Europe through programs and
research funding ERDF (European Regional Develop-
ment Fund). The impact of global change on ecosys-
tems is one of the key focus areas of our research. This
focus area includes research into the adaptive diﬀeren-
tiation of marine animals.
The originality of marine population genetics is to ma-
nipulate extreme values of demographic parameters:
high fecundity, huge population sizes and long distance
dispersal via a planktonic larval stage. Correlatively,
exceptionally high genetic diversity and low geographic
diﬀerentiation are observed in many marine species.
Local adaptation should be more costly for marine than
for terrestrial species because larval movements exceed
in scale the grain of habitat heterogeneity. Paradoxi-
cally, marine animals have proven able to pay the cost
of local adaptation. We propose two hypotheses to re-
solve this old paradox of local adaptation in the sea:
(i) A long history of non-equilibrium conditions (colo-
nization, range expansion, fragmentation) has a bear-
ing on the existence and maintenance of environmental
adaptation. (ii) Marine species are routinely structured
into hidden diﬀerentiated endogenous backgrounds, so-
called genetic barriers, which secondarily came to coin-
cide with environmental transitions.
The aim of this project is to take advantage of these
recent advances in marine genomics to identify ge-
nomic regions inﬂuenced by selection. The genetic basis
and history of adaptive diﬀerentiation in marine condi-
tions will be studied experimentally by population ge-
nomics approaches (ˆ agenome scanˆ a) in a marine bivalve
species, Macoma balthica. A high-throughput 454 py-
rosequencing has been performed on M. balthica and
14,000 SNPs are yet available.
(i) SNPs with a high diﬀerentiation in the sequencing
of 454 samples will be selected.
(ii) Using the SNPs selected, a genome scan of diﬀeren-
tiation will be performed at diﬀerent spatial and tem-
poral scales:
ˆA meso-scale analyses will be carried out among regions
to analyze adaptation during range expansion (intro-
duction point vs. peripheral populations at the margin)
ˆA macro-scale studies will analyze adaptive diﬀerentia-
tion during colonization process and adaptive diﬀeren-
tiation and introgression between well-recognized dif-
ferentiated genomes (e.g. sub- or cryptic species).
The position requires an individual with a PhD and
experience in population genetics and evolutionary bi-
ology. Outstanding molecular, genomics and computa-
tional skills are particularly advantageous.This project is part of a program funded by the ANR
(Hi-Flo: Genetic BASIS and history of adaptive diﬀer-
entiation in high gene ﬂow marine species). Funding is
available for a 12-month position, for a minimum of 1
year.
Thanks very much for your help Pascale Garcia
Pascale Garcia <pgarciam@univ-lr.fr >
ULeicester ModellingMigration
Two postdoctoral research associate positions (up to 4
yrs funding)
The Impact of Diasporas on the Making of Britain
Funded by the Leverhulme Trust
Two postdoc positions are available at the University of
Leicester as part of a major multi-disciplinary research
programme funded by the Leverhulme Trust: The Im-
pact of Diasporas on the Making of Britain. The re-
search associates will work on one of two interdisci-
plinary projects: 1) Modeling migration 2) Genetics
and early British population history. Both projects are
linked with Professor Mark Jobling’s lab in the Depart-
ment of Genetics at the University of Leicester.
Modeling migration
This project will use computer simulations in a
geographically-explicit framework to model processes of
genetic change in populations in Britain over historical
time (i.e. Late Iron Age to the present). A possible
approach is the simulation of patterns of genetic di-
versity (initially focusing on uniparentally inherited Y-
chromosomal and mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA] mark-
ers) within modern British populations and multiple
source populations for putative migrations, using coa-
lescent methods. Diﬀerent sets of starting conditions,
population growth parameters, sex-speciﬁc processes,
migration rates and modes could be explored, informed
by historical, archaeological, onomastic and linguistic
data, to address compatibility with deﬁned hypothe-
ses. Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) simu-
lations could be used to choose the best-ﬁtting models
of population history, and to estimate demographic pa-
rameters.
Genetics and early British population history
This project will seek novel molecular markers for
historical population analysis in regions of the British
Isles. Sources such as the 1000 Genomes Project, theApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 91
Cancer Genome Project and UK10K can be mined for
new Y-SNPs, accumulating whole mtDNA sequence
data and genome-wide SNP data can be evaluated, and
the informativeness of autosomal and X-chromosomal
haplotype blocks containing SNPs and STRs can
be investigated. The project will also compile and
evaluate extant and emerging population genetic data
sets as tools to investigate speciﬁc questions relevant
to the overall programme. These could include forensic
databases and growing British and European datasets
held at Leicester. Other rich sources of emerging
data will be the People of the British Isles Project
(www.peopleofthebritishisles.org ), the Genographic
Project ( www.genographic.nationalgeographic.com ),
and geographically-linked genome-wide SNP data from
the new high-throughput studies aiming to characterise
genes involved in common disease.
The website for the programme is www.le.ac.uk/-
diasporas . Informal enquiries can be made to Dr
Turi King (diasporas@le.ac.uk) Application details are
available via the University of Leicester job pages
www.le.ac.uk/joinus The references number for both
jobs is AHL00103. Closing date for applications is May
3rd, 2011.
tek2@leicester.ac.uk
UManchester
ComputationalAnalysis
DrugResistance
Post Doctoral Research Associate - Computational
analysis of HIV-1 drug resistance Computational and
Evolutionary Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences, The
Univ. of Manchester
Closing date: 21/04/2011; Reference: LS/11949
Applications are invited for a 12 month postdoctoral
position in the research group of Dr David Robert-
son ( http://www.bioinf.manchester.ac.uk/robertson )
at the University of Manchester. The objective of the
project will be to investigate the evolution and emer-
gence of resistance to drugs that bind the CCR5 recep-
tor used by HIV-1 to enter cells. The overall aim is
to improve prediction of HIV-1 drug resistance. The
research will be computer-based and is funded by the
MRC as part of an academia- industry partner scheme.
You should have (or expect to hold) a relevant PhD.
Experience of bioinformatics and/or computational bi-ology research is required and experience in molecular
evolution, phylogenetics and/or protein structure anal-
ysis an advantage.
Salary: £29,099 p.a.; informal enquiries: Dr David
Robertson, email: david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk .
See http://www.manchester.ac.uk/aboutus/jobs/-
vacancies/research/ for further details including a link
to an application form (search for ref LS/11949).
– David L. Robertson, PhD Michael Smith Blding, Fac-
ulty of Life Sciences, Univ. of Manchester. Tel:+44
(0)161 275 5089, http://www.manchester.ac.uk/ceb
david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk
UMass Boston EvolutionaryBiol
Postdoctoral Researcher Professional Staﬀ one year
Trust funded Beneﬁtted appointment Start date: Au-
gust 2011
The Department of Biology seeks applicants interested
in obtaining postdoctoral research experience in evolu-
tionary ecology of lizards and/or computational meth-
ods in evolutionary biology (particularly phylogenetic
methods). The candidate will assist the lab PI (Rev-
ell) in new and ongoing research projects in the lab.
Depending on his or her prior experience and interests,
the researcher may also be asked to help organize and
participate in ﬁeld research expeditions and/or assist in
running and maintaining the lab. Duties will depend on
the researcher’s interests and prior experience and may
include programming in R or C languages; conduct-
ing and supervising basic molecular and morphological
lab work; organizing and leading ﬁeld expeditions to
tropical locales; handling and working with live ani-
mals (lizards). Applicants must hold a Ph.D degree or
must expect to earn one before August 2011. A detailed
description of Dr. Revell’s research is available on his
lab webpage: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/ .In-
terested individuals should send a cover letter, a cur-
riculum vitae, and a two letters of recommendation,
along with a maximum two page statement of research
experience and interest. The material can be submitted
electronically to the liam.revell@umb.edu (preferably as
a single PDF ﬁle) or by mail Dr. Liam Revell, Biology
Department, University of Massachusetts Boston, 100
Morrissey Blvd, Boston MA 02125.
UMass Boston is an Aﬃrmative Action, Equal Oppor-
tunity Title IX employee.92 EvolDir April 1, 2011
– Liam J. Revell University of Massachusetts
Boston web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/
email: liam.revell@umb.edu blog: http://-
phytools.blogspot.com Liam.Revell@umb.edu
UNewHampshire
MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics
Vaughn Cooper’s laboratory at the University of New
Hampshire ( http://cooperlab.wikidot.com ) seeks a mo-
tivated and productive postdoctoral researcher to work
on NSF-funded research to quantify the distribution
of eﬀects of adaptive mutations in bacterial popula-
tions. Major interests of the laboratory are 1) adap-
tation in bioﬁlms 2) how adaptive alleles interact with
their genomic and external environments 3) bacterial
adaptation to novel hosts 4) the ecology and popula-
tion structure of potentially pathogenic bacteria and 5)
how genome organization inﬂuences evolutionary rates.
The funded project is studying the distribution of
pleiotropic eﬀects among various collections of bene-
ﬁcial alleles, employing experimental evolution, various
physiological assays and genome resequencing to link
mutations to their functional consequences.As such, the
position requires an individual with a PhD and expe-
rience in microbiology, evolutionary biology, ecology,
physiology, or related ﬁelds. Outstanding molecular,
quantitative, or computational skills are particularly
advantageous.
Additional opportunities exist for individuals interested
in developing their skills in teaching, mentorship, and
outreach as portions of this research will be conducted
in the classrooms of partner secondary schools.
Funding is available for a 12-month position, for a min-
imum of 1 year, and may be extended upon mutual
agreement. Preference will be given to candidates with
a high probability of applying for (with the help of the
PI) and obtaining independent funding. There will be
ample opportunity for the candidate to pursue his or
her own research program within the context of the
grant proposal, and in collaboration with the PI and
other colleagues.
The starting date can be immediate, and the position
will remain open until ﬁlled. For primary considera-
tion, applicants should apply by May 1, 2011. Informal
inquiries are welcomed prior to formal application.
To receive full consideration, please attach the followingdocuments to the online employment site:
1. A curriculum vitae 2. Names of three references
willing to provide a letter of recommendation upon re-
quest 3. A brief statement of how your research goals
relate to those of the lab. 4. A brief statement of inter-
est, ideas, and qualiﬁcations for independent fellowship
and/or grant applications.
For a more comprehensive job description or to
apply, visit https://jobs.usnh.edu Computer ac-
cess/assistance is available at the Human Resources Of-
ﬁce, 2 Leavitt Lane, Durham, NH 03824 or call 603-862-
0501 (TTY Users 603-862-3227).
*/UNH is an AA/EEOEmployer. UNH is committed
to excellence through the diversity of its faculty and
staﬀ and encourages women and minorities to apply./*
vscooper@gmail.com
UOslo ComputationalBiology
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES), Department of Biology Renewed announce-
ment - Postdoctoral Research Fellow in computational
biology - (2010/2225)
CEES is a well-funded Centre of Excellence for inte-
grative biological research. It provides a stimulating
research environment, situated at the Department of
Biology, with many young international and Norwe-
gian scientists working on a variety of theoretical and
empirical topics within ecology, evolution, population
genetics, genomics, phylogenetics, molecular biology,
and biostatistical methodology. Research themes of
particular importance to the centre are speciﬁcally ad-
dressed in a sequence of 4 partly overlapping interdis-
ciplinary research colloquia, each lasting 3 years. The
announced postdoc position belongs to Colloquium 2.
It brings together a highly interdisciplinary team that
aims to address key topics in ecology and evolution-
ary biology that currently suﬀer from the conceptual
and methodological gap that exists between classical
ecological and evolutionary research on one side, and
molecular genetics, genomics and systems biology on
the other side. CEES is chaired by Professor Nils Chr.
Stenseth and currently employs 20 faculty members,
40 postdocs/researchers, 35 PhD students and 36 MSc
students. Information about the centre can be found
at:http://www.cees.uio.no . The fellowship period is
2 years. Starting date: August 1, 2011.April 1, 2011 EvolDir 93
Job description: The postdoctoral fellow will be part
of a Colloquium 2 project having as its major goal
to provide the foundation for a long-term theoretical-
experimental research programme addressing the phe-
nomenon of epigenetic inheritance (transgenerational
phenotypic plasticity) in a truly integrative way; bridg-
ing the mechanistic, ecological and evolutionary ex-
planatory domains attached to the phenomenon. As
epigenetic inheritance is a complex multiscale systemic
phenomenon, we intend to start out with building a
portfolio of pioneering mathematical models linking
proximate and ultimate causation. The postdoctoral
fellow is expected to play a key role in the conceptu-
alization as well as analyses of these models in close
interaction with an interdisciplinary research team con-
sisting of both theoretical and experimental biologists.
The fellowship period is 2 years.
Within the framework of the position, duties may be as-
signed. There will also be openings for being involved
in other Colloquium 2 activities when this is found to
beneﬁt the overall scientiﬁc output.
Requirements: Applicants must hold a PhD-degree (or
equivalent) and have solid experience in computational
biology. Experience with modelling of chromatin dy-
namics and/or signal transduction and/or gene regu-
lation will be a strong advantage. Furthermore, expe-
rience from collaboration with experimentally inclined
biologists will be considered an asset. We seek a highly
motivated and skilled person, who is eager to both gain
and share insight while being continuously focused on
publishing papers in leading, international journals.
A good command of English is required. http:/-
/www.matnat.uio.no/english/research/education/-
proﬁciency inEnglish.html The main purpose of
post-doctoral research fellowships is to qualify re-
searchers for work in top academic positions within
their disciplines. No one can be appointed for more
than one period at the same institution.
Please also refer to the regulations pertain-
ing to the conditions of employment for post-
doctoral fellowship positions: http://www.uio.no/-
admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/-
regulationstermcondition.xml Salary: Postdoctoral
Research Fellow (SKO, 1352), pay grade: 57 ˆ a 64
(NOK 448 200ˆ a510 000 depending on qualiﬁcations
and seniority).
The application must include: ˆ a Application letter in-
cluding a statement of interest, summarizing the appli-
cant’s scientiﬁc work and interests and describing how
she/he ﬁts the description of the person we seek ˆ a CV
(summarizing education, positions, pedagogical expe-
rience, administrative experience and other qualifyingactivity), including a list of published and unpublished
works ˆ a Copies of educational certiﬁcates, transcript of
records, letters of recommendation ˆ a A complete list of
publications and up to 5 academic work that applicant
wishes to be considered by the evaluation committee
ˆ a Names and contact details of 2-3 references (name,
relation to candidate, e-mail and telephone number)
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their University’s grading system. Please remember
that all documents should be in English or a Scandina-
vian language.
To apply for the position:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
USheﬃeld 2 EvolutionBehaviour
I have a couple of postdoc positions open on human
behavioural ecology at the University of Sheﬃeld, and
because I am hoping to ﬁnd candidates with a degree
on evolutionary biology and strong background on e.g.
quantitative genetics.
Two postdoc positions on human behavioural ecology
at the Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld
We are looking for two post-doctoral research associates
to work at the interface between evolutionary biology,
epidemiology, demography and anthropology on the ge-
netic, ecological and demographic factors inﬂuencing
life-history patterns and senescence rate in humans.
The overall aim of the project is to understand the
evolutionary ecology of human reproductive behavior
across the large demographic and social changes occur-
ring during the past 200 years, and how natural selec-
tion has aﬀected human populations at diﬀerent peri-
ods. The post-holder will be in charge of managing
and analysing a large pedigree database on the demog-
raphy of historical Finnish families spanning the time
since early 1700s until the end of 1900s. More infor-
mation about the research group is available at http:/-
/www.huli.group.shef.ac.uk/ . The successful candidate
will have a PhD in evolutionary biology or related topic
and a good track record of publishing in leading spe-
cialist or multidisciplinary journals. Strong statistical94 EvolDir April 1, 2011
skills are essential. The post is ﬁxed-term with a start
date of 1st April 2011 (or as soon as possible thereafter)
and an end date of 31st March 2013 with a possibil-
ity of an extension subject to funding. The work will
be performed at the Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences, University of Sheﬃeld - one of the largest de-
partments in the UK devoted to the study of whole
organism biology. We are ranked joint 3rd in the UK
for biology research and 70% of our research activity
has been judged to be “world-leading” or internation-
ally excellent (RAE 2008). The position is funded by
the European Research Council (ERC). Closing date:
14.3. 2011.
For all on-line application system queries and support,
contact: e-Recruitment@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
For informal enquiries about this job and department,
contact: Dr Virpi Lummaa v.lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
or +44 (0)114 2220051
– Dr. Virpi Lummaa Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences University of Sheﬃeld Western Bank, Sheﬃeld
S10 2TN United Kingdom
tel. +44 (0)114 222 0051 fax. +44 (0)114 222
0002 email. v.lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk http://-
www.huli.group.shef.ac.uk/ http://www.shef.ac.uk/-
aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/lummaa.html Virpi Lummaa
<V.Lummaa@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryGenetics
There is a Postdoctoral Research Associate position
available at the University of Sheﬃeld, Department of
Animal and Plant Sciences to work with Dr. Rhonda
Snook, Prof. Roger Butlin, and Prof. Kevin Gaston on
landscape genomics, adaptation and climate change.
The postdoc will be responsible for coordinating the
collection of samples of caged populations of Drosophila
subobscura across 6 latitudinal sites in Europe, work-
ing in close collaboration with Project Partners at each
site. Samples will subsequently be analysed for high
throughput sequence and expression data. The central
aim of the project is to determine the genetic responses
to environmental variation. Speciﬁcally, we will test
the hypothesis that diﬀerential gene expression and/or
coding sequence evolution is involved in the evolution
of local adaptation along an environmental temperature
gradient and is associated with genome structure.
This is an exciting prospect for an ambitious and skilfulPost-doctoral Research Associate to work at the inter-
face between evolutionary biology and climate change,
providing an excellent opportunity to use the latest
molecular genetic tools on a project involving collab-
oration with partners across Europe. The post-holder
should have experience in research in evolutionary ge-
netics and handling sequence and/or expression data,
along good people skills.
The position is funded by the National Environment
Research Council (NERC), UK. The post is a ﬁxed
term with a start date of 1st April 2011 (or as soon
as possible thereafter) and an end date of 31st March
2013 with a possibility of an extension subject to fund-
ing. The work will be performed at the Department
of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheﬃeld -
one of the largest departments in the UK devoted to
the study of whole organism biology. We are ranked
joint 3rd in the UK for biology research and 70% of our
research activity has been judged to be “world-leading”
or internationally excellent (RAE 2008). The Univer-
sity of Sheﬃeld is ranked 7th in the world for research
on the Environment and Ecology (THE 2008).
Closing date: 25th March 2011
Applications must be submitted online using the fol-
lowing link:
For all on-line application system queries and support,
contact: e-Recruitment@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
For informal enquiries about this job and the
department, contact: Dr. Rhonda Snook,
r.snook@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
For more information on the Principal Investigators,
please see:
http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/snook.html
http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/-
butlin.html http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/staﬀ/-
acadstaﬀ/gaston.html Dr. Rhonda Snook Senior
Lecturer Department of Animal and Plant Sciences
University of Sheﬃeld Alfred Denny Building, Western
Bank Sheﬃeld S10 2TN UK
telephone: +44 (0) 114 222 0126 fax: +44 (0)
114 222 0002 webpage: http://www.shef.ac.uk/-
aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/snook.html lab webpage:
http://snook-lab.group.shef.ac.uk/index.html
r.snook@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
USouthAustralia UrbanAdaptationApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 95
RESEARCH FELLOW, Barbara Hardy Institute, Uni-
versity of South Australia
The Barbara Hardy Institute is currently seeking a Re-
search Fellow to undertake, apply and deliver research
in the area of Urban Ecology with the Barbara Hardy
Institute at the University of South Australia.
The Urban Ecology group undertakes research into how
animals adapt to urban environments, how people con-
nect with and treat wildlife in their back yards, and the
threats and opportunities cities create for wildlife. Ur-
ban ecological communities change rapidly as the size
and style of our green space changes. We can lose
species or have plagues appear rapidly. How we can
manage wildlife is a major area of research.
This position will be required to actively contribute to
the research of the Urban Ecology group by implement-
ing and leading research projects under the direction of
Professor Phil Weinstien. The position is a ﬁxed term
contract for three years. This position will be required
to build and promote the proﬁle and research emanat-
ing from the Urban Ecology group by preparing and
publishing scientiﬁc research in high quality peer re-
viewed journals and presenting the research outcomes
at leading national and international conferences.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in ecology,
zoology, botany health science, social science, environ-
ment science, conservation biology, or related area and
experimental research experience, demonstrated track
record and demonstrated experience and knowledge in
preparing and applying for grants.
For further information, including a copy of the position
description please visit www.unisa.edu.au/hrm/careers
For further information, please contact Professor Phil
Weinstein, Dean of Graduate Studies on telephone:
+61 8 8302 5129 or email: phil.weinstein@unisa.edu.au
Applications close: 9.00am Monday 04 April 2011
Your assistance is appreciated.
With Thanks
Susan Corbisiero Institute Manager |Barbara Hardy
Institute University of South Australia |Mawson Lakes
Campus
Ph: 08 8302 5347 |M: 0435 969 818
Susan Corbisiero <Susan.Corbisiero@unisa.edu.au >
UStellenbosch InvasivePlantsSouth Africa- Spread of invasive plants (deadline 10
April 2011)
Post-doctoral Fellow-Stellenbosch CSIR Natural Re-
sources and Environment (NRE) unit conducts world-
class, directed interdisciplinary research and technolog-
ical innovation, with partners and stakeholders in the
ﬁeld of natural resources and the environment to con-
tribute to the social, economic and environmental im-
provement of South Africa and Africa. The impact
of global change on ecosystems is one of the key fo-
cus areas of our research. This focus area includes
research into the ecology and management of invasive
alien plants, and much of this research is carried out
on behalf of the Working for Water programme, a gov-
ernment initiative that seeks to reduce these impacts in
all areas of South Africa. We are looking to appoint a
Post-doctoral Fellow for two years. He/she will work on
a project funded by the Working for Water programme,
and will be based at the Stellenbosch oﬃce.
The work will focus on modelling the future potential
spread of invasive alien plants at a landscape scale in
South Africa. The incumbent will work as part of a
team of invasion ecologists based at the CSIR and at
the Centre for Invasion Biology. The team is under the
leadership of Dr Brian van Wilgen.
Key responsibilities: ** Review, in consultation with
leading experts, the current levels of understanding in
this ﬁeld. ** Develop models to predict the potential
extent of invasion and rate of spread of invasive alien
plants under South African conditions. ** Test these
models on a set of invasive species in case studies.
Qualiﬁcations, skills and experience: **A doctorate in
the natural sciences. **Experience in plant population
dynamics modelling, invasive alien plant ecology or ap-
plied mathematics would be advantageous. **Demon-
strated ability to publish work in the peer-reviewed
literature. **Proven ability to conduct independent
research. **Good communication and interpersonal
skills. **Ability to work in a cross-disciplinary project
team environment. **Highly self-motivated.
Should you meet the above requirements, please go to
the URL indicated below in order to apply, select the
position reference number 4963 complete the applica-
tion form and attach your CV. URL: www.csir.co.za/-
apply.php Closing date: 10 April 2011 PLEASE NOTE
THAT FEEDBACK WILL BE GIVEN TO SHORT-
LISTED CANDIDATES ONLY. Should you experience
any problems in submitting your application, please
contact the CSIR Recruitment Centre at Recruitment-
queries@csir.co.za. Please do not submit your applica-
tion to this mailbox.96 EvolDir April 1, 2011
“Spear, Dian, Dr <dspear@sun.ac.za >”
<DSPEAR@sun.ac.za >
UVienna AnimalBiodiversity
At the University of Vienna (15 faculties, 3 centres,
about 180 ﬁelds of study, approx. 8.600 members of
staﬀ, approx. 85.000 students) the position of a Univer-
sity Assistant (post doc) at the Department of Animal
Biodiversity is vacant.
Identiﬁcation number of advertisement: 1979
Molecular data are nowadays an indispensable source
of information to answer research questions in ecology
and biodiversity. In our department we study patterns
of species diversity and species composition at the com-
munity level in order to unravel mechanisms that gener-
ate and maintain biodiversity. Emphasis is on tropical
biota, but temperate-zone communities are also stud-
ied (see www.univie.ac.at/animal biodiversity ). We are
seeking for a scientist with an organismal perspective
and broad command of molecular biology techniques,
working at the interface between biodiversity research,
ecology, and evolution. The focus should be on insects
as target organisms. A fully equipped lab is available,
as is support through a technician. The successful can-
didate is expected to develop an independent, interna-
tionally visible research agenda. Teaching obligation is
4 hours per semester week.
Degree of Employment: 40 hours/week
Areas of work: Generating and using of DNA sequence
data for research questions in evolution and ecology.
Teaching in the ﬁeld of biology, with emphasis on ani-
mal biodiversity, evolution and ecology.
Proﬁle: PhD degree in Biology, preferably with focus
on ecology, evolution, or zoology. Postdoc experience
from a competitive research laboratory. Experience
with applying relevant analytical skills, techniques and
methods, including a broad range of molecular biology
techniques. Good command of up-to-date statistical
and bioinformatics methods to analyse molecular data.
Strong interest in the ﬁeld of biodiversity and evolu-
tion. Good command of English language. Interest
in academic teaching in BSc and MSc curricula (e.g.
molecular methods for biologists, insect biodiversity).
High motivation and commitment to work in a team.
Expertise in conservation biology would be welcome.Applications including a letter of motivation (German
or English) should be sent via Job Center to the Univer-
sity of Vienna ( http://jobcenter.univie.ac.at ) no later
than 31.03.2011 and be referenced to the identiﬁcation
number 1979.
For further information please contact Univ.-
Prof. Mag. Dr. Konrad Fiedler (kon-
rad.ﬁedler@univie.ac.at).
The University of Vienna intends to increase the num-
ber of women on its faculty, particularly in high-level
positions, and therefore speciﬁcally invites applications
by women. Among equally qualiﬁed applicants women
will receive preferential consideration.
Identiﬁcation number of advertisement: 1979
E-Mail: jobcenter@univie.ac.at
brigitte.gottsberger@univie.ac.at
UVirginia GenomicsBioinformatics
Post-doctoral Research Associate
The Department of Biology at the University of Vir-
ginia invites applications for a post-doctoral Research
Associate position in genomics and/or bioinformatics.
The research will focus primarily on the evolutionary in-
teraction between the nuclear and cytoplasmic genomes
of the plant, Silene vulgaris, but the candidate will also
be encouraged to broaden the use of genomic resources
in this system to diﬀerent projects and collaborations.
The position also involves preparing materials for pub-
lication, data management and dissemination, website
maintenance, and mentoring graduate and undergrad-
uate students.
The completion of Ph.D. degree in Biology or a re-
lated discipline by appointment start date is required.
Candidates with a background in evolutionary biology
or population genetics are preferred, as are those with
some experience in bioinformatics, genomics, or next-
generation sequencing. Candidates must have eﬀective
oral and written communication skills.
To apply, please submit a candidate proﬁle on-line and
attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the contact
information for three references through Jobs@UVA
(https://jobs.virginia.edu ); search on posting number
0607328.
Review of applications will begin April 11, 2011; how-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 97
ever, the position will remain open until ﬁlled. Ques-
tions regarding this position should be directed to:
Dr. Douglas Taylor 434-982-5217 drt3b@virginia.edu
Questions regarding the Candidate Proﬁle process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to:
Shawna Edinger 434-982-5615 se5k@virginia.edu
Women and members of underrepresented groups are
encouraged to apply. The University of Virginia is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
“Edinger, Shawna (se5k)”
<se5k@eservices.virginia.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics 2
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genet-
ics/Genomics
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in the
Laboratory of Professor Carol Lee in the Center of
Rapid Evolution (CORE) at the University of Wiscon-
sin, Madison to work on a project in collaboration with
Joana Silva at the Institute for Genome Sciences.
The research focuses on the evolutionary genetics and
genomics of invasive populations. We are exploring
the systematic and functional composition of micro-
bial communities associated with an invading host,
the copepod Eurytemora aﬃnis, and how microbial-
host interactions shift following habitat invasions. The
project will make extensive use of microbiome and
metagenome methodologies to study the microbiota,
and of transcriptome sequencing and analyses to char-
acterize metabolic shifts within the copepod host.
Requirements for this position include a Ph.D., a strong
background in molecular biology/genomics and strong
analytical and quantitative skills. Relevant training
and experience include research in transcriptomics,
metagenomics, culturing of bacteria from environmen-
tal samples, and genomic data analysis.
Applicants should email a cover letter, CV, a brief
statement of research interests and experience, and
up to three representative publications to: car-
ollee@wisc.edu. Applicants should also arrange for
three letters of recommendation to be sent by email.
Any questions regarding this position are welcome. Ap-
plication Deadline: March 30, 2010 (preferably sooner).The University of Wisconsin, Madison provides an in-
tellectually vibrant research environment, with ~37 bi-
ology departments and ~800 biology faculty, including
a strong community of evolutionary biologists and ge-
neticists. The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Associate Professor Center
of Rapid Evolution (CORE) 430 Lincoln Drive, Birge
Hall University of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706 car-
ollee@wisc.edu
https://mywebspace.wisc.edu/carollee/web/Lee/-
Lee.html carollee@wisc.edu
UWisconsin-MadisonUWisconsin-
Madison
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genet-
ics/Genomics
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in the
Laboratory of Professor Carol Lee in the Center of
Rapid Evolution (CORE) at the University of Wiscon-
sin, Madison to work on a project in collaboration with
Joana Silva at the Institute for Genome Sciences.
The research focuses on the evolutionary genetics and
genomics of invasive populations. We are exploring
the systematic and functional composition of micro-
bial communities associated with an invading host,
the copepod Eurytemora aﬃnis, and how microbial-
host interactions shift following habitat invasions. The
project will make extensive use of microbiome and
metagenome methodologies to study the microbiota,
and of transcriptome sequencing and analyses to char-
acterize metabolic shifts within the copepod host.
Requirements for this position include a Ph.D., a strong
background in molecular biology/genomics and strong
analytical and quantitative skills. Applicants should
email a cover letter, CV, a brief statement of research
interests and experience, and up to three representative
publications to: carollee@wisc.edu.
The University of Wisconsin, Madison provides an in-
tellectually vibrant research environment, with ~37 bi-
ology departments and ~800 biology faculty, including
a strong community of evolutionary biologists and ge-
neticists. The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.98 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Associate Professor Center
of Rapid Evolution (CORE) 430 Lincoln Drive, Birge
Hall University of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706 car-
ollee@wisc.edu
https://mywebspace.wisc.edu/carollee/web/Lee/-
Lee.html carollee@wisc.edu
WashingtonU HumanGenomics
A Postdoctoral position in Human Genomics is avail-
able in the lab of Don Conrad at Washington University
School of Medicine. The lab is engaged in a range of
projects centered around population genetics and hu-
man reproduction (see www.genetics.wustl.edu/dclab ).
We are interested in understanding the processes of
gametogenesis, fertilization and pregnancy through ge-
netic analysis of reproduction-related traits and func-
tional genomic analysis of reproduction-related cell
types, and ultimately translating our ﬁndings to im-
provements in the diagnosis and treatment of reproduc-
tive disorders. We have an extremely strong record in
the discovery and analysis of genetic variation and can
oﬀer mentoring in the design of genomics experiments
and the use of computational statistics. Through Wash-
ington University and various collaborations we have
access to material from thousands of patients seen by
reproductive specialists, giving us tremendous scope in
the type of problems we can address.
Responsibilities include leading analyses of next-
generation sequence and genotype data collected from
sources such as blood and sperm from healthy indi-
viduals and infertile ones, developing novel analytical
methods as needed and distilling research results into
tools that can be used by the clinical and basic research
communities. The post oﬀers the opportunity for direct
collaboration with clinicians in an IVF setting as well
as experimentation with new techniques in DNA prepa-
ration and sequencing. We are committed to the career
development and personal growth of our team.
Required Qualiﬁcations
-Highly motivated to do interesting research, transform
medicine, and have fun doing it
-Ph.D. in a related molecular bioscience (genomics, pro-
teomics, biochemistry, mol bio, etc.) or related quan-
titative science (computational biology, biostatistics,
comp sci, etc). MDs or MD/PhDs with appropriate
training are also welcome to apply.-Previous success as a research scientist demonstrated
by ﬁrst-author publications.
-Excellent computational skills are required for most
projects in the lab. The ideal applicant will know a
compiled language (e.g. C, Java), a scripting language
(e.g. PERL, Python), and R.
-Eﬀective written and oral communication and proven
ability to work in a collaborative environment
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV, copies of relevant publications and contact infor-
mation for at least two references) should be emailed to
D Conrad at <dconrad@genetics.wustl.edu >. Starting
date is ﬂexible but the position is open immediately.
About Washington University School of Medicine
Washington University (WashU), situated in St. Louis,
MO, USA, provides an elite research environment that
includes one of the country’s top ﬁve medical schools;
top ten hospitals; world-renowned researchers; and the
legacy of 19 Nobel Laureates. It is home to one of the
largest genome sequencing centers in the world which
generated more than 20 percent of the sequence for the
Human Genome Project. A highly collaborative, inter-
disciplinary environment makes WashU an ideal place
for people looking to do translational work, for instance
related to genomic medicine.
Don Conrad
Assistant Professor Department of Genetics Depart-
ment of Pathology & Immunology Washington Univer-
sity School of Medicine Saint Louis, MO, USA
WayneStateU TriboliumGenomics
Postdoc: Wayne State. Genomic analysis of Tribolium
eye development.
The Friedrich lab at Wayne State University, De-
troit ( https://sites.google.com/site/friedrichlab/ ),
invites applications to ﬁll a 2-year NSF funded post-
doc position in functional genomics with possible
extension. The project focuses on the analysis of
eye development in the red ﬂour beetle Tribolium
castaneum in collaboration with Dr. Rui Chen’s
group in the Department of Molecular and Human
Genetics at Baylor College of Medicine ( http://-
www.bcm.edu/genetics/?pmid=10863 ). The postdoc
will join ongoing eﬀorts to test gene network pre-
dictions from diﬀerential transcriptome analysis byApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 99
RNAi, in situ hybridization and quantitative PCR
and develop a comprehensive model of Tribolium
eye speciﬁcation for comparison with Drosophila
and vertebrate systems ( http://www.nsf.gov/-
awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=-
0951886&WT.z pims id=501087 ).
Ph.D. experience in molecular developmental biology
is essential. Background or strong interests in bioinfor-
matics, the visual system and evolution will be advanta-
geous. Tribolium has matured into a powerful satellite
system for studying insect development and evolution.
Development of personal research directions related to
the visual system will be strongly encouraged.
To apply, or inquire about further details contact Dr.
Markus Friedrich (friedrichwsu@gmail.com).
Applications should be submitted as pdf ﬁle by email
no later than April 30st and include CV, list of publi-
cations, statement of research interests and the names
of three referees.
Markus Friedrich Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences Wayne State University 5047 Gullen
Mall Detroit, MI 48202
– Markus Friedrich Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences Wayne State University 5047 Gullen
Mall Detroit, MI 48202
oﬃce: 313 577 9612 lab: 313 577 5120 fax: 313
577-6891 http://friedrichlab.googlepages.com/home
Markus Friedrich <friedrichwsu@gmail.com >
WestVirginiaU MicrobialEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in Dr.
Olga Zhaxybayeva’s lab in the Biology Department of
West Virginia University in Morgantown, WV. The suc-
cessful candidate will perform research in the area of
computational genomics, focusing on deciphering pro-
cesses governing microbial evolution through the anal-
ysis of patterns in genomic and metagenomic data sets.
More information about the laboratory is available at
http://ecg.bio.wvu.edu . Ph.D. in bioinformatics, biol-
ogy, computer science, statistics or a related ﬁeld with
strong background in molecular evolution; solid compu-
tational skills; extensive programming and scripting ex-
perience; and evidence of successful team-work abilitiesare required. Experience working with next-generation
sequence data and Unix operating system are desirable.
The successful applicant will be expected to contribute
to a variety of ongoing collaborative research projects
with teams across the United States and Canada, as
well as establish his/her own independent projects, and
will be provided with training opportunities of grant
writing and student supervision.
Review of applications will begin April 1, 2011 and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. The initial appoint-
ment is for one year with the possibility of renewal
for up to two additional years contingent upon per-
formance, need, and funding. Salary will be oﬀered
commensurate with experience and skills. Competitive
beneﬁts package is included.
Interested applicants should send a single PDF ﬁle con-
taining CV, one-page statement of research interests
and contact information of three references to ECGLab-
Jobs@gmail.com.
West Virginia University is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer and the recipient of
an NSF ADVANCE award for gender equity.
– Olga Zhaxybayeva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology West Virginia University PO Box 6057
Morgantown, WV 26506 USA
Oﬃce: (304) 293-5201 ext. 31531 Lab: (304) 293-
5201 ext. 31331 Fax: (304) 293-6363 Email: ol-
gazh@mail.wvu.edu Web: http://ecg.bio.wvu.edu/ ol-
gazh@mail.wvu.edu
YaleU MosquitoEvolution
One year postdoc available to study the evolutionary
genetics/genomics of the major mosquito vector, Aedes
aegypti. Experience in population genetics/genomics
including good analytical skills required. Experience
with particular organism less important. This is an NIH
Training Grant position and thus the applicant must be
a US Citizen. Possibility of extension dependent upon
successful grant applications. Send CV and letter de-
scribing your availability and reasons for interest in this
position to: jeﬀrey.powell@yale.edu Application dead-
line: April 10.
jeﬀ powell <jeﬀrey.powell@yale.edu >100 EvolDir April 1, 2011
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol Jun26-Jul2 . . . . . . . . . . 100
BamﬁeldStation EvolutionModels Jul24-Aug12 . . . 101
Berlin Evolutionary Genomics Sep14-22 . . . . . . . . . . 101
FortCollins Colorado MolEvol Jul24-Aug6 2 . . . . . . 101
FortCollins NGS analysis Jul10-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Gregynog Wales Hybridisation Oct23-26 . . . . . . . . . 103
Gregynog Wales Hybridisation Oct23-26 2 . . . . . . . . 103
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis Jul23-29 . . . . . . . . 103
MichiganStateU DataAnalysis Jun6-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 104
MtDesertIsland Evolution and Medicine Aug8-12 . 105
NESCent DurhamNC NextGenSequencing Aug15-29
106
NESCent EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . 107
NESCent PracticalComputing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Phyloseminar ComparativeMethods Mar16 . . . . . . . 108Phyloseminar ComparativeMethods Mar30 Resched-
uled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Portal Arizona AntEvolution Aug4-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Portugal MolecularEvolution Apr11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Portugal PopulationStructure Apr4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May15-
28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May15-
28 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Rostock Germany EvolutionaryDemography . . . . . . 112
UCopenhagen HumanPopGenet Jun20-25 . . . . . . . . 114
UMichigan EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul25-29 . . . 114
Valencia MEPPA 2011 May30-Jun3 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
WoodsHole MolEvolution Jul24-Aug3 . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol
Jun26-Jul2
Dear Colleagues, we still have a few places available at
this workshop, please bring it to the attention of po-
tential participants. Tad Kawecki
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
26 June- 2 July 2011 Arolla, Switzerland
3 ETSC credit points
Faculty: John Pannell (University of Oxford, UK)
Mike Ritchie (University of St. Andrews, UK) Jerome
Goudet (University of Lausanne, Switzerland) Tadeusz
Kawecki (University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
Target participants: PhD students, advanced master
students This workshop, based on a concept developed
by Steve Stearns and John Maynard Smith, takes place
in a small Alpine village (Arolla), which will allow you
to focus while being able to enjoy the landscape and
the Alpine ﬂora. The main goals of this course are todevelop the following skills: - developing your scientiﬁc
ideas through discussions in groups - thinking critically
and expressing oneself clearly - turning a general idea
into a research project - writing a research proposal
and defending it It is you, the students, who will be in
charge in this course. You will be divided in groups of
4-5 students. In those groups, you will work on your
ideas. You, as a group, will decide what the important
questions in broadly deﬁned evolutionary biology are,
you will choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal
for a research project that will address it. The faculty
will visit the groups during the discussions to answer
your questions, provide coaching and give you feedback
on your projects, but they will generally take the back
seat. Additionally, the faculty will give informal talks
about their research and be available for informal dis-
cussion with individual students. At the end you will
present your projects to other participants, and we will
party.
Costs: CHF 430.- for room and board.
More information under http://biologie.cuso.ch/-
ecologie-evolution/activities/detail-activity/item/-
courses/evolutionary-biology-workshop-in-the-alps-1/April 1, 2011 EvolDir 101
To apply, send a single ﬁle (pdf or rtf) containing a
short motivation letter, a cv and the name of your
scientiﬁc advisor to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch.
Deadline for application: 28 February 2011.
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
BamﬁeldStation EvolutionModels
Jul24-Aug12
Dear Evoldir,
Registration is still open for “Models in Evolution,” a
course that at the Bamﬁeld Marine Sciences Station,
on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada (July
25-Aug 12).
The Bamﬁeld Marine Sciences Station is an amazing
place for students to learn about the life sciences (stun-
ning scenery, enthusiastic classmates, small classes,
many “hands on” opportunities).
The modelling course – one of many courses at BMSC
– deals with topics that would be of particular interest
to undergraduates or graduate students studying evolu-
tionary ecology. A full course description can be found
at
http://www.bms.bc.ca/university/courses2011/-
summer11 des.html#models and registration info can
be found at
http://www.bms.bc.ca/university.html If you have any
questions, don’t hesitate to contact me (gwild@uwo.ca).
-Geoﬀ Wild Applied Math University of Western On-
tario
gwild@uwo.ca
Berlin Evolutionary Genomics
Sep14-22
We are pleased to announce the Otto Warburg In-
ternational Summer School and Research Symposiumon Evolutionary Genomics, to be held in Berlin from
September 14th to 22nd, 2011.
http://ows.molgen.mpg.de/ The following speakers
have conﬁrmed their attendance at the school:
Hans Ellegren (Uppsala) Nicolas Galtier (Montpel-
lier) Laurence Hurst (Bath) Henrik Kaessmann (Lau-
sanne) Fyodor Kondrashov (Barcelona) Michael Lynch
(Indiana) Duncan Odom (Cambridge) H. Allen Orr
(Rochester) Dmitri Petrov (Stanford) Stephan Schus-
ter (Philadelphia) Ken Wolfe (Dublin)
The scientiﬁc coordinators of the OWS are Martin Vin-
gron, Peter Arndt and Brian Cusack at the Max Planck
Institute for Molecular Genetics in Berlin. The aim of
this program is to bring together researchers and PhD
students from diﬀerent backgrounds (including molec-
ular biology, bioinformatics, biological physics, mathe-
matics) to discuss recent advances in evolutionary ge-
nomics in an interactive environment. The program
focuses on high-level teaching and topical research sem-
inars. Participants are expected to give poster presen-
tations or contribute talks.
We invite applications from PhD students and a lim-
ited number of PostDocs. Please apply for atten-
dance before June 12, 2011 via our website http://-
ows.molgen.mpg.de/ .
The programs (and video streams) of previous Summer
Schools can also be found on the school’s website.
For questions please contact the school organiser,
Kirsten Kelleher (kelleher@molgen.mpg.de)
cusack@molgen.mpg.de
FortCollins Colorado MolEvol
Jul24-Aug6 2
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, North America 2011
Fort Collins, Colorado, USA
24 July - 6 August 2011
Application Deadline: 15 May is the preferred applica-
tion deadline, however, later applications are accepted.
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
Michael P. Cummings, Scott A. Handley and Kendra
Nightingale, Co-Directors
The Workshop consists of a series of lectures, demon-
strations and computer laboratories that cover various102 EvolDir April 1, 2011
aspects of molecular evolution. Faculty are chosen ex-
clusively for their eﬀectiveness in teaching theory and
practice in molecular evolution. Included among the
faculty are developers and other experts in the use
of computer programs and packages such as BEAST,
*BEAST, DataMonkey, FigTree, Genealogical Sorting
Index, GARLI, HyPhy, LAMARC, MAFFT, MrBayes,
and SeaView who provide demonstrations and consul-
tations.
The course is designed for established investigators,
postdoctoral scholars, and advanced graduate students
with prior experience in molecular evolution and related
ﬁelds. Scientists with strong interests in molecular evo-
lution, phylogenetics, population genetics, and related
ﬁelds are encouraged to apply for admission. Scheduled
lectures and computer laboratories total ~96 hours of
instruction. Admission is limited and highly competi-
tive.
Topics to be covered include:
- Phylogenetic analysis: theoretical, mathematical and
statistical bases; sampling properties of sequence data;
Bayesian analysis; hypothesis testing - Maximum likeli-
hood and Bayesian theory and practice in phylogenetics
and population genetics: coalescent theory; estimation
of population genetic parameters - Detecting positive
selection: theory and practice; codon models - Dating
phylogenies: theory and practice - Coalescent species
trees
2011 Fee: 1100 USD does not include other meals or
housing. Special discounted housing and meals are
available on the campus of Colorado State University.
For more information and online application see the
Workshop web site -
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
and for housing and payment information see -
https://regstg.com/Registration/RegForm.aspx?rid=-
3D76c8770d-9b70-44e5-9d1d-804beeceb915&action=-
add The Workshop on Comparative Genomics
is also being oﬀered immediately before the
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, see http:/-
/www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
mike@umiacs.umd.edu
FortCollins NGS analysis Jul10-23
Workshop on Comparative Genomics, North America2011
Fort Collins, Colorado, USA
10 - 23 July 2011
Application Deadline: 15 May is the preferred applica-
tion deadline, however, later applications are accepted.
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
Scott A. Handley, Michael Cummings and Kendra
Nightingale, Co-Directors
The Workshop on Comparative Genomics consists of a
series of lectures, demonstrations and computer labo-
ratories that cover various aspects of comparative ge-
nomics focusing on next-generation sequencing data.
Faculty are chosen exclusively for their eﬀectiveness in
teaching theory and practice in comparative genomics.
Included among the faculty are developers and other
experts in the use of computer programs and pack-
ages such as ABySS, bowtie, velvet, bioperl, Scrip-
ture, GMOD, Gbrowse, Galaxy, PyCogent, QIIME
who provide demonstrations and consultations. The
course is designed for established investigators, post-
doctoral scholars, and advanced graduate students. Sci-
entists with strong interests in the uses of short-read
sequence data, analytical methods, comparative struc-
ture of genomes, metagenomics, genome visualization
tools and related areas are encouraged to apply for ad-
mission. Lectures and computer laboratories total ~96
hours of scheduled instruction. Admission is limited.
No programming experience is required, however, de-
tailed instruction suitable for the novice will be pro-
vided during the early days of the Workshop on the use
of the command line, editing tools and basic scripting.
Topics to be covered include: - Linux command line
usage and scripting for next-generation sequence anal-
ysis - Sequencing technologies and study design - Se-
quence data quality control - Assembly and alignment
- Functional annotation - Transcriptomics - Metage-
nomic analysis - Evolutionary genomics - Population
genomics
2011 Fee: 1800 USD does not include other meals or
housing. Special discounted housing and meals are
available on the campus of Colorado State University.
For more information and online application see the
Workshop web site -
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WCG
and for housing and payment information see -
https://regstg.com/Registration/RegForm.aspx?rid=-
3Dd41e4a6a-bf9f-40f0-8b0a-74fba75088b4&action=add
The Workshop on Molecular Evolution is also being of-
fered immediately after the Workshop on Comparative
Genomics.April 1, 2011 EvolDir 103
http://www.molecularevolution.org/workshops/WME
mike@umiacs.umd.edu
Gregynog Wales Hybridisation
Oct23-26
Frontiers in Speciation Research Workshop: Hybridis-
ation and Speciation
Gregynog Conference Centre, 23-26 October 2011
The European Science Foundation research net-
work, Frontiers in Speciation Research ( http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FroSpects/ ), invites
participants to a workshop on the roles of hybridis-
ation in the process of speciation. This is intended
to be a high-level discussion meeting, rather than a
training workshop. It will focus around sessions led by
invited participants (Alex Buerkle, Jim Mallet, Karin
Pfennig, Arne Nolte, Pierre Boursot and Richard Ab-
bott) and the aim is to draft a Perspective article on
the topic during the meeting. Attendance will be lim-
ited to 40 participants. The meeting will cover two
and a half days (arrival Sunday 23 October, depar-
ture pm Wednesday 26 October) and it will be held
in the beautiful surroundings of the Gregynog Confer-
ence Centre in mid-Wales ( http://www.wales.ac.uk/-
en/UniversityConferenceCentre/GregynogHall.aspx ).
The meeting is subsidised by the ESF network but par-
ticipants will need to pay a contribution of 200UK-
pounds towards the costs of food and accommodation
and cover their own travel expenses. If you would like
to be considered for a place at the workshop, please
send a brief CV and statement of research interests
(maximum one side of A4 each) to Angela Wright
(a.p.wright@shef.ac.uk) by 8 April 2011. Please note
that the CV and statement may be circulated to other
participants at the workshop.
The meeting is organised by Roger Butlin, Mike
Ritchie, Jacek Szymura, Ulf Dieckmann and Ake
Brannstrom on behalf of FroSpects.
r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Gregynog Wales Hybridisation
Oct23-26 2Reminder: closing date 8 April
Frontiers in Speciation Research Workshop: Hybridis-
ation and Speciation
Gregynog Conference Centre, 23-26 October 2011
The European Science Foundation research net-
work, Frontiers in Speciation Research ( http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FroSpects/ ), invites
participants to a workshop on the roles of hybridis-
ation in the process of speciation. This is intended
to be a high-level discussion meeting, rather than a
training workshop. It will focus around sessions led by
invited participants (Alex Buerkle, Jim Mallet, Karin
Pfennig, Arne Nolte, Pierre Boursot and Richard Ab-
bott) and the aim is to draft a Perspective article on
the topic during the meeting. Attendance will be lim-
ited to 40 participants. The meeting will cover two
and a half days (arrival Sunday 23 October, depar-
ture pm Wednesday 26 October) and it will be held
in the beautiful surroundings of the Gregynog Confer-
ence Centre in mid-Wales ( http://www.wales.ac.uk/-
en/UniversityConferenceCentre/GregynogHall.aspx ).
The meeting is subsidised by the ESF network but par-
ticipants will need to pay a contribution of 200UK-
pounds towards the costs of food and accommodation
and cover their own travel expenses. If you would like
to be considered for a place at the workshop, please
send a brief CV and statement of research interests
(maximum one side of A4 each) to Angela Wright
(a.p.wright@shef.ac.uk) by 8 April 2011. Please note
that the CV and statement may be circulated to other
participants at the workshop.
The meeting is organised by Roger Butlin, Mike
Ritchie, Jacek Szymura, Ulf Dieckmann and Ake
Brannstrom on behalf of FroSpects.
r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis
Jul23-29
Human Genome Analysis: Genetic Analysis of Multi-
factorial Diseases 23-29 July 2011
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
Deadline for applications: 15 April 2011
http://www.wellcome.ac.uk/Education-resources/-
Courses-and-conferences/Advanced-Courses-
and-Scientiﬁc-Conferences/Advanced-Courses/-104 EvolDir April 1, 2011
WTX026851.htm Course summary An intensive,
residential, computer-based course aimed at scientists
actively involved in genetic analysis of multifactorial
traits.
Conﬁrmed 2011 Guest speakers Professor William O.
Cookson (Imperial College London, UK) Professor Eliz-
abeth R. Hauser (Duke University Medical Center,
USA) Professor Aarno Palotie (Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, UK) Professor Mingyao Li (University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, USA) Professor Se-
bastian Z¨ ollner (University of Michigan, USA)
Course organisers * Daniel Weeks (University of Pitts-
burgh, USA) * Mark Lathrop (Centre National de
Genotypage, Evry, France)
Course instructors * Heather Cordell (Institute of Hu-
man Genetics, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK)
* Janet Sinsheimer (University of California, Los An-
geles, USA) * Eric Sobel (University of California, Los
Angeles, USA) * Joe Terwilliger (Columbia University,
New York, USA) * Chad Garner (University of Cali-
fornia, Irvine, USA) * Simon Heath (Centre Nacional
d’An` alisi Gen` omica (CNAG), Barcelona, Spain)
Programme This advanced course covers statistical
methods currently used to map disease susceptibility
genes, with an emphasis on (but not limited to) meth-
ods that can analyse family data or a combination
of families and individuals. Discussions of the latest
statistical methodology are complemented by practical
hands-on computer exercises using state-of-the-art soft-
ware. The statistical basics behind each method will
be carefully explained so that participants with a non-
statistical background can understand.
With a focus on family data, we will discuss funda-
mental issues needed to increase success in gene map-
ping studies including: optimal study design, power to
detect linkage and association, determining the most
appropriate statistical methods and software, interpre-
tation of statistical results and trouble shooting. We
will also cover the basic principles of statistical infer-
ence, hypothesis testing, population and quantitative
genetics and Mendelian inheritance. Our interactive
and intensive educational program will enable one to
better carry out sophisticated statistical analyses of ge-
netic data, and will also improve one’s interpretation
and understanding of the results. All the software used
is freely available, so that skills learned can be easily
applied after the course.
Janet@mednet.ucla.eduMichiganStateU DataAnalysis
Jun6-17
Analyzing Next-Generation Sequencing Data
June 6th - June 17th, 2011 Kellogg Biological Station,
Michigan State University
Instructors: Dr. C. Titus Brown, Dr. Ian Dworkin,
and Dr. Istvan Albert.
Applications must be received by March 25th for full
consideration.
More information and application link here:
http://bioinformatics.msu.edu/ngs-summer-course-
2011 Course Description:
This intensive two week summer course will introduce
students with a strong biology background to the prac-
tice of analyzing short-read sequencing data from Roche
454, Illumina GA2, ABI SOLiD, Paciﬁc Biosciences,
and other next-gen platforms. The ﬁrst week will in-
troduce students to computational thinking and large-
scale data analysis on UNIX platforms. The second
week will focus on mapping, assembly, and analysis
of short-read data for resequencing, ChIP-seq, and
RNAseq.
No prior programming experience is required, although
familiarity with some programming concepts is helpful,
and bravery in the face of the unknown is necessary. 2
years or more of graduate school in a biological science
is strongly suggested.
Students will gain practical experience in:
* Python and bash shell scripting * cloud comput-
ing/Amazon EC2 * basic software installation on UNIX
* installing and running maq, bowtie, and velvet *
querying mappings and evaluating assemblies
Materials from last year’s course are available
athttp://ged.msu.edu/angus/ under a Creative
Commons/use+reuse license.
Ian Dworkin <idworkin@msu.edu >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 105
MtDesertIsland Evolution and
Medicine Aug8-12
A new one-week course will be oﬀered this summer at
the Mt. Desert Island Biological Laboratory:
*Evolutionary Foundations for Medicine and Public
Health, August 8-12, 2011 <http://www.mdibl.org/-
courses/Evolution andMedicine/296/ >*
We are now accepting applications for 40 participants.
For an application or more information, please see
the MDIBL website <http://www.mdibl.org/courses/-
Evolution andMedicine/296/ >or the course descrip-
tion, below.
~~~
*August 8 to August 12, 2011*
*Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory Summer
Course on*
*Evolutionary Foundations for Medicine and
Public Health < http://www.mdibl.org/courses/-
Evolution andMedicine/296/ >*
(Special expertise on evolution and reproduction avail-
able this year)
* Faculty*
- William Aird ˆ a Harvard University - Gillian Bentley
ˆ a Durham University, UK - Carl Bergstrom ˆ a Univer-
sity of Washington - Peter Gluckman ˆ a University of
Auckland - Peter Ellison ˆ a Harvard University - Ran-
dolph Nesse ˆ a University of Michigan (Course director)
- Chris Reiber ˆ a SUNY Binghamton - Stephen Stearns
ˆ a Yale University
*Participants* This course will be limited to 40 partic-
ipants. It will be appropriate for those with a back-
ground in biology and/or medicine at diverse levels.
While special expertise in evolutionary biology is not
required, those with background in evolutionary biol-
ogy will have specialized opportunities. To maximize
beneﬁts to this developing ﬁeld, admission preference
will be oﬀered to physicians and professors who teach or
anticipate teaching courses on the subject and to mem-
bers of minority groups who may be eligible for support
from the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center. Re-
searchers and students from advanced undergraduates
to postdocs will be warmly welcomed if there is space.
*Course description* This intensive one-week coursewill introduce strategies for applying core principles of
evolutionary biology to problems in medicine and pub-
lic health by focusing on selected examples. The rele-
vant principles include life history theory, evolutionary
genetics, host pathogen co-evolution, the regulation of
defenses, developmental plasticity, and trade-oﬀs shap-
ing reproductive strategies. They will be applied to
clinically relevant topics including aging, antibiotic re-
sistance, clinical management of fever, endothelial dis-
ease, prenatal experience and metabolic syndrome, and
reproductive cancers. This yearˆ as course will have ex-
tensive special expertise available on topics related to
reproduction. Mornings will be devoted to lectures and
structured discussions. In the early afternoons, partici-
pants will work in small groups with faculty and others
who share specialized interests. Most groups will inves-
tigate a speciﬁc disorder, for instance, metabolic syn-
drome, multiple sclerosis, or breast cancer. Each group
will develop a possible research project, for presenta-
tion on Friday. Individuals are also free to create their
own projects. Late afternoons (except Monday) are not
prescheduled, allowing participants to pursue individ-
ual interests or organize their own additional discus-
sions and projects.
*CME credit* CME credit will be available. This ac-
tivity has been planned and implemented in accordance
with the essential areas and policies of the Accredita-
tion Council for Continuing Medical Education through
the joint sponsorship of Colby College and the Mount
Desert Island Biological Laboratory. Colby College is
accredited by the ACCME to sponsor continuing med-
ical education for physicians.
As an institution accredited for CME, Colby College
designates this educational activity for a maximum of
29 AMA PRA Category 1 Creditsˆ a. Physicians should
only claim credit commensurate with the extent of their
participation in the activity.
*Tentative Schedule*
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
8-9
Maladaptation and natural selection
Nesse &
Faculty
Reproduction and its disorders106 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Ellison
Plasticity & development
Gluckman
Mismatch
Gluckman
Reproductive Cancers
Stearns &
Bentley
9-10
Overview of core evolutionary principles
Faculty
Menopause
Reiber
Regulation of defenses
Nesse
Evolution and the endothelium
Aird
Hygiene and autoimmune diseases
Stearns
10-10:30
Break
Break
Break
Break
Break
10:30-12
Life history theory and aging
Stearns
Consequences of early menarche
Bentley
Seminar on Methodology
Faculty
Teaching/learning strategies
Reiber/Faculty
Antibiotic resistance
Bergstrom
Noon
LunchLunch
Lunch
Lunch
Lunch
1-3
Introductions and organization of Workgroups
Workgroups on topics of personal interest
Workgroups on topics of personal interest
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
NESCent DurhamNC
NextGenSequencing Aug15-29
Title: Next-gen sequencing: data acquisition, compara-
tive genomics, design and analysis for population genet-
ics, systematics and development Instructors: William
Cresko, Brian O’Connor, M´ onica Cecilia Mu˜ noz-Torres,
Alexie Papanicolaou, Konrad Paszkiewicz, Jennifer
Taylor, Francesc L´ opez, Jeﬀrey Townsend Dates: Au-
gust 15 - 29, 2011 Application deadline: May 15, 2011
Website: academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent), Durham, NC
As part of the new NESCent Academy initiative, NES-
Cent is pleased to open applications for ’Next-gen se-
quencing: data acquisition, comparative genomics, de-
sign and analysis for population genetics, systematics
and development’. This course will provide computa-
tional training required for those working with Next-
generation sequencing data and is aimed in particular
at graduate students, research fellows and faculty cross-
ing the ﬁeld into genomics. The course will be embed-
ded within an array of biological questions but it will
be focused around speciﬁc technical questions such as:
* sequencing strategies, including libraries and RAD-
TAG * generation of gene-models from related refer-
ence genomes or from NGS transcriptomes * variant
calling and alternative splicing detection * analyzing
diﬀerential expression * generation and use of genome-
wide SNP markers * analysis of metagenomic data *
phylogeny reconstruction from NGS An added advan-
tage of attending will be networking and the creationApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 107
of a community of researchers familiar with an inter-
operable set of tools, providing continued support and
the potential for collaboration into the future.
–
Karen Cranston Training Coordinator and Informatics
Project Manager nescent.org
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@nescent.org >
NESCent
EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics
Title: Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Primary in-
structors: Stevan Arnold and Joe Felsenstein Dates:
August 8-13, 2011 Application deadline: May 15, 2011
Website: academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center, Durham, NC
As part of the new NESCent Academy initiative, we are
pleased to open applications for Evolutionary Quanti-
tative Genetics. In this workshop we will review the
basics of theory in the ﬁeld of evolutionary quantita-
tive genetics and its connections to evolution that is
observed at various time scales. Quantitative genetic
theory for natural populations was developed consider-
ably in the period 1970-90 and up to the present time.
It has been applied to a wide range of phenomena in-
cluding the evolution of diﬀerences between the sexes,
sexual preferences, life history traits, plasticity of traits,
as well as the evolution of body size and other morpho-
logical measurements. Textbooks have not kept pace
with these developments, and currently few universi-
ties oﬀer courses in this subject aimed at evolutionary
biologists. There is a need for evolutionary biologists
to understand this ﬁeld because of the ability to collect
large amounts of data by computer, the development of
statistical methods for changes of traits on evolutionary
trees and for changes in a single species through time,
and the realization that quantitative characters will not
soon be fully explained by genomics. This workshop
aims to ﬁll this need by reviewing basic aspects of the-
ory and illustrating how that theory can be tested with
data. Participants will learn to use R, an open-source
statistical programming language, to build and test evo-
lutionary models. The intended participants for this
workshop are graduate students, postdocs, and junior
faculty members in evolutionary biology.
The course is co-sponsored by the American Society of
Naturalists.–
Karen Cranston Training Coordinator and Informatics
Project Manager nescent.org
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@nescent.org >
NESCent PracticalComputing
Course title: Practical Computing for Biologists In-
structors: Steven Haddock and Casey Dunn Dates:
June 6-15, 2011 Application deadline: April 15, 2011
Website: academy.nescent.org Where: North Carolina
State University, Raleigh, NC
As part of the new NESCent Academy initiative, NES-
Cent is pleased to open applications for Practical Com-
puting for Biologists. This course covers some of the
simple but powerful skills that all scientists should know
in a world of increasingly complex analyses. This is not
a typical bioinformatics course, although the lessons are
applicable to molecular data. The skills are applica-
ble to any subdiscipline where gathering and analyzing
moderate to large data sets are involved. The speciﬁc
sections include working with text ﬁles, command-line
operations, scripting and Python programming, creat-
ing scientiﬁc graphics, working with servers (remote lo-
gin, software installation), and a bit about the web and
data-acquisition hardware.
This course is timely because biologists and other re-
searchers are expected to analyze larger and more com-
plex data sets, but using inadequate tools like spread-
sheets. Although the examples will be shown making
use of Mac OSX and its Unix underpinnings, all of the
tools discussed are cross-platform and freely available.
Participants will be able to take the techniques and
skills they learn back to their labs to continue making
their own research easier and more eﬀective. The tar-
get audience for the course is anyone with data: grad
students, post-docs, technicians, and faculty.
Practical Computing for Biologists is based on the book
of the same name by Steven Haddock and Casey Dunn.
The course is co-sponsored by the NESCent and the
Department of Genetics / Initiative in Biological Com-
plexity at North Carolina State University.
–
Karen Cranston Training Coordinator and Informatics
Project Manager nescent.org
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@nescent.org >108 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Phyloseminar ComparativeMethods
Mar16
Please come to a free online seminar next week:
Brian O’Meara speaks Wednesday, March 16th at 11am
PST on “Making comparative methods as easy as
ABC”
Abstract: For decades, biologists have addressed evolu-
tionary and ecological questions using measurements of
species traits, phylogenies, and an assortment of com-
parative methods. Unfortunately, while there is a large
assortment of these methods, they are still fairly lim-
ited and development of new methods is slow. It took
seven years between the introduction of using a simple
Brownian motion model for looking at trait evolution
(Felsenstein, 1985) and the use of this same model for
looking at rates of trait evolution (Garland, 1992), and
an additional 14 years to more powerful tests using a
small modiﬁcation of the basic model (O’Meara et al.,
2006). Still other promising methods are described and
even tested but remain unavailable to empiricists be-
cause they are not put into software. As a result, the
questions empiricists can ask about the world are lim-
ited by the research productivity of the few dozen scien-
tists who develop and implement new methods in phy-
logenetics. We describe a new approach based on Ap-
proximate Bayesian Computation and implemented in
R that will allow researchers to easily develop their own
models for trait evolution without requiring them to
have specialized mathematical or computational knowl-
edge.
Japan 03:00 (03:00 AM) on Thursday, March 17 New
Zealand 07:00 (07:00 AM) on Thursday, March 17 West
Coast USA 11:00 (11:00 AM) on Wednesday, March
16 East Coast USA 14:00 (02:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 16 England 18:00 (06:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 16 France 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 16
For more information on how to attend this and other
seminars, visit phyloseminar.org.
ematsen@gmail.comPhyloseminar ComparativeMethods
Mar30 Rescheduled
Due to a family emergency, Brian’s talk has been
pushed forward two weeks. Thank you for your un-
derstanding.
—
Brian O’Meara speaks Wednesday, March 30th at 11am
PST on “Making comparative methods as easy as
ABC”
Abstract: For decades, biologists have addressed evolu-
tionary and ecological questions using measurements of
species traits, phylogenies, and an assortment of com-
parative methods. Unfortunately, while there is a large
assortment of these methods, they are still fairly lim-
ited and development of new methods is slow. It took
seven years between the introduction of using a simple
Brownian motion model for looking at trait evolution
(Felsenstein, 1985) and the use of this same model for
looking at rates of trait evolution (Garland, 1992), and
an additional 14 years to more powerful tests using a
small modiﬁcation of the basic model (O’Meara et al.,
2006). Still other promising methods are described and
even tested but remain unavailable to empiricists be-
cause they are not put into software. As a result, the
questions empiricists can ask about the world are lim-
ited by the research productivity of the few dozen scien-
tists who develop and implement new methods in phy-
logenetics. We describe a new approach based on Ap-
proximate Bayesian Computation and implemented in
R that will allow researchers to easily develop their own
models for trait evolution without requiring them to
have specialized mathematical or computational knowl-
edge.
Japan 03:00 (03:00 AM) on Thursday, March 31 New
Zealand 07:00 (07:00 AM) on Thursday, March 31 West
Coast USA 11:00 (11:00 AM) on Wednesday, March
30 East Coast USA 14:00 (02:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 30 England 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 30 France 20:00 (08:00 PM) on Wednesday,
March 30
For more information on how to attend this and other
seminars, visit http://phyloseminar.org . Erick Matsen
<matsen@fhcrc.org >April 1, 2011 EvolDir 109
Portal Arizona AntEvolution
Aug4-14
ANT COURSE 2011 http://www.antweb.org South-
western Research Station (SWRS), Portal, AZ, USA
August 4-14, 2011
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: April
1, 2011 Application form: https://-
spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=-
3DdGNTcVh1ZzVGNjd1aVU5cnV1dWZNbVE6MA
COURSE OBJECTIVES. - ANT COURSE is designed
for systematists, ecologists, behaviorists, conserva-
tion biologists, and other biologists whose research
responsibilities require a greater understanding of ant
taxonomy and ﬁeld research techniques. Emphasis
is on the identiﬁcation of the ant genera and species
occurring in North America. Lectures will include
background information on the ecology, life histories
and evolution of ants. Field trips are structured
to teach collecting and sampling techniques, and
associated lab work provides instruction on specimen
preparation, sorting and labeling. Information on
equipment/supply vendors, literature, and myrmeco-
logical contacts are also presented.
COURSE SIGNIFICANCE. - Ant Course is a unique
opportunity to acquire training that is unavailable else-
where. This course will provide students with 1) the
conﬁdence and skills to identify the ant genera of North
America; 2) an understanding of modern specimen pro-
cessing and curation techniques; 3) an appreciation for
the biological diversity of ants, and 4) experience keying
to the species level.
SPONSORS. - California Academy of Sciences and Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION. - ANT COURSE
will be taught from August 4 - 14, 2011 at the South-
western Research Station (SWRS) in Portal Arizona (
http://research.amnh.org/swrs/ ). The Station is cen-
tered amid the richest ant fauna in North America.
This is an ongoing course, oﬀered annually.
PARTICIPANT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA. - ANT
COURSE is open to all interested individuals. Priority
will be given to those students for whom the course will
have a signiﬁcant impact on their research with ants.
An entomological background is not required. We aim
to include students with a diverse interest in biology,including ant systematics, ecology, behavioral biology,
genetics, and conservation. The high instructor to stu-
dent ratio will allow students to receive individual at-
tention. ANT COURSE is presented in English and
limited to 30 participants
COSTS. - Tuition for the 10-day COURSE is $475 for
current students and $675 for non-students. In addi-
tion, the Southwestern Research Station (SWRS) fee
for this period, covering dormitory room and board, is
$625. Transportation costs between home and Tucson
(air) or SWRS (auto) are to be borne by all partici-
pants.
FELLOWSHIPS. - Four fellowships are available for
2011. Two fellowships cover tuition fees and two fel-
lowships cover station fees. Foreign students may apply
for additional fellowships to assist in travel. Those in-
terested in attending the course should seek all possible
avenues to secure funding for the course. You should
only apply for the Ant Course fellowship if you cannot
ﬁnd other support and it is essential for your partici-
pation in the course. Beware that if you apply for an
ant course fellowship it implies that fellowship funding
is essential to your participation in the course. Thus,
if you are not selected for a fellowship, you might not
be accepted into the course. Please notify the course if
your funding request status changes before the applica-
tion due date.
COURSE APPLICATION. - Application and
course information at http://www.antweb.org .
The ﬁrst step is to ﬁll out a form at: https:/-
/spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=-
3DdGNTcVh1ZzVGNjd1aVU5cnV1dWZNbVE6MA
In addition, you must also submit a CV, personal state-
ment, and letter of reference to AntCourse@gmail.com.
By April 5, you will be notiﬁed that your application is
complete. If you do not receive a conﬁrmation that your
application has been received by April 5, please contact
Brian Fisher at AntCourse@gmail.com. You will be no-
tiﬁed of your acceptance to the Course around APRIL
15-20.
ANT COURSE is limited to 30 participants. Selec-
tion of participants will be carried out by committee,
based on your reasons for wishing to take the course
at this time. Priority will be given to those students
for whom the course will have a signiﬁcant impact on
their research with ants. Because the Course will be
oﬀered yearly, and because many well-qualiﬁed candi-
dates cannot be accepted because of limited capacity,
we urge applicants not selected for this session to apply
again the following year.
2011 Possible INSTRUCTORS - Final list announced110 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Spring 2011: Brian Fisher (Coordinator), Dept. of En-
tomology, California Academy of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Portugal MolecularEvolution
Apr11-15
*** REMINDER ***
Deadline for applications March 29th
Dear All The Bioinformatics Training Course course
MEPA11 is OPEN for applications
IMPORTANT DATES for MEPA11 Deadline for ap-
plications: March 29th 2011 Notiﬁcation of acceptance
dates: EARLY: March 15th 2011 (on special request,
see Application) NORMAL: March 30th 2011 Course
date: April 11th - 15th 2011
MEPA11 Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and
Adaptation with Hernan Dopazo and Fran¸ cois Serra
More than 30 years ago, Theodosius Dobzhansky
claimed: “Nothing in Biology makes sense except in the
light of evolution” Currently, the simplest Bioinformat-
ics analysis uses species comparisons in order to hypoth-
esise the function of a novel biological sequence. More-
over, in most Molecular Biology labs, evolutionary and
phylogenetic concepts are constantly being used with
more or less formality: homology, similarity, evolution-
ary rates, long branch attraction, rooted and unrooted
trees, monophyletic group, molecular clock, adaptation,
lineage eﬀects, neutralism, cladograms, phylograms,
etc. The course covers these and other major concepts
in Evolutionary Biology and Phylogenetics. Attendees
will acquire speciﬁc skills in using the methodology in
Comparative and Evolutionary Biology problems. The
course is designed to be a mixture of theoretical and
practical sessions developed in 5 days, where both clas-
sic and recently introduced methods for phylogenetic
reconstruction will be covered. As outcome of the more
recent developments, the course dedicates a day to the
analysis of adaptation at a molecular level. The soft-
ware resources that will be used in the practical ses-
sions include: Phyml, Phylip, MEGA, TreePuzzle, Mr-
Bayes, PAML, Modeltest-Protest, and the Phylemonweb server.
More details and application instructions at:
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/MEPA11
Information on all GTPB courses at http://-
gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Other courses also open
for applications: IB11 Introductory Bioinformatics
MAPS11 Model-based Inference in Population Struc-
ture BPB11 Bioinformatics using Python for Biologists
KDMC11 Knowledge Discovery and Management in
Chemoinformatics
About to open: RNA11 RNA Bioinformatics
NGSDM11 Next Generation Sequencing Data Manage-
ment
– Pedro Fernandes GTPB Coordinator
Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
Portugal PopulationStructure
Apr4-7
*** ANNOUNCEMENT ***
Deadline for applications March 26th
Dear All The Bioinformatics Training Course course
MAPS11 is OPEN for applications
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course Deadline for ap-
plications: March 26th 2011 Notiﬁcation of acceptance
dates: EARLY: March 14th 2011 (on special request,
see Application) NORMAL: March 28th 2011 Course
date: April 4th to April 7th 2011
MAPS11 Model-based Inference of Population Struc-
ture with Mark Beaumont, Loun ˜As Chikhi and Barbara
Parreira
Course description
Course description
Population genetic data are increasingly used in sev-
eral areas ranging from ecology to anthropology and
archaeology. In all these areas, the aim is to infer some
aspects of the demographic history of populations based
on present-day genetic data. A variety of Monte Carlo
techniques have been developed to achieve this. Recent
years have seen the development of simulation tools
that allow users to simulate genetic data under com-
plex scenarios. At the same time approximate Bayesian
computation (ABC) has become a popular approach for
inferring population genetic parameters such as migra-April 1, 2011 EvolDir 111
tion rates, the size of founding populations, or the time
at which populations split from a common ancestor. In
this course we will provide an overview of the Monte
Carlo techniques that have been used in population ge-
netics.
In this 4-day course we will introduce the main con-
cepts that underlie many of the models that are fre-
quently used in population genetics. We will use clas-
sical clustering method such as implemented in the
STRUCTURE software and will introduce a variety of
Monte Carlo techniques that have been used for infer-
ence in population genetics including methods of in-
ference based on ABC. We will discuss genealogical
(coalescent-based) methods and also those based on
forward-in-time simulations. We will discuss some of
the tools that are available and discuss issues such as
model validation, model choice, and summary statis-
tics.
More details and application instructions at:
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/MAPS11
Information on all GTPB courses at http://-
gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Other courses also open
for applications: IB11 Introductory Bioinformatics
MEPA11 Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and
Adaptation BPB11 Bioinformatics using Python
for Biologists KDMC11 Knowledge Discovery and
Management in Chemoinformatics
About to open: RNA11 RNA Bioinformatics
NGSDM11 Next Generation Sequencing Data Manage-
ment
– Pedro Fernandes GTPB Coordinator
Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >Pedro
Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May15-28
Summer course on marine genomics at the Marine Bi-
ological Station of Roscoﬀ (F)
>From May 15th - May 28th, 2011 the 7th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
will take place at the Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ,
France.
The course consists of lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises in the following subjects. Phylogeny &tree of life- sequence analyses, phylogenetic techniques
(clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock, case
studies Phylogeography - molecular evolution through
networks, phylogeographical techniques, coalescence,
population dynamics, case studies Population genetics
- structure, connectivity and gene ﬂow, assignment, ef-
fective size and population dynamics, case studies Ge-
nomics - next generation sequencing, database search-
ing, basic skills in data handling and bioinformatics
Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular evo-
lution at the functional level Comparative genomics
- whole genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny,
genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution Environmental genomics - methods for
detecting diversity; detecting adaptive variation; NGS:
why and how; case studies. Applications in aqua-
culture, blue biotech, conservation, ﬁsheries, metage-
nomics, nutrigenomics and the like will be discussed.
Target group PhD students (at least in their second
year) and post docs with a solid knowledge in phy-
logenetics and/or population genetics. Students with
an applied background (e.g. aquaculture, blue biotech,
ﬁsheries, nutrigenomics) are encouraged to apply.
Application and contact To apply please ﬁll in the ap-
plication form and send to Jonas Coll´ en (collen@sb-
roscoﬀ.fr) together with a 2-page CV before April 10th
2011.
16 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project 2. Background and experience of applicant 3.
We will aim at mixing people with diﬀerent research
backgrounds; probably not more than one person per
institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal gender distribution.
The selected persons will be notiﬁed at the end of April
and have to conﬁrm within 7 days. We will have a wait-
ing list in case of non- conﬁrmations and cancellations.
Conﬁrmed teachers Sandie Baldauf, U. Uppsala, SE
Jonas Coll´ en, U Paris 6, FR Simon Creer, U Ban-
gor, UK Yves Desdevises, CNRS Banyuls, FR J Jakob
Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK Galice Hoarau, U
Bodø, NO Jeanine Olsen, U Groningen, NL Fr´ ed´ eric
Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Heroen Verbruggen, U
Gent, BE Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE Mathias Weg-
ner, ETH Zurich, SW
Organizing committee Claudie Perron, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Jeanine Olsen, Univ Groningen, NL Jonas Coll´ en, SB-
Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
For information and application forms: Jonas Coll´ en
Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ BP 74, F-29680112 EvolDir April 1, 2011
ROSCOFF CEDEX France Phone: +(33)2 98 29 23
23 Fax: +(33)2 98 29 23 24 Email: collen@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
[URL: will be launched on 15 March 2011]
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May15-28 2
Summer course on marine genomics at the Marine Bi-
ological Station of Roscoﬀ (F)
>From May 15th - May 28th, 2011 the 7th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
will take place at the Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ,
France.
Second announcement
Aims: To introduce genetic and genomic approaches for
the analysis of biological diversity, evolution and adap-
tation at the species and population level in the ocean.
The course consists of lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises in the following subjects. Phylogeny &
tree of life- sequence analyses, phylogenetic techniques
(clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock, case
studies Phylogeography - molecular evolution through
networks, phylogeographical techniques, coalescence,
population dynamics, case studies Population genetics
- structure, connectivity and gene ﬂow, assignment, ef-
fective size and population dynamics, case studies Ge-
nomics - next generation sequencing, database search-
ing, basic skills in data handling and bioinformatics
Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular evo-
lution at the functional level Comparative genomics
- whole genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny,
genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution Environmental genomics - methods for
detecting diversity; detecting adaptive variation; NGS:
why and how; case studies. Applications in aqua-
culture, blue biotech, conservation, ﬁsheries, nutrige-
nomics and the like will be discussed.
Target group PhD students (at least in their second
year) and post docs with a solid knowledge in phy-
logenetics and/or population genetics. Students with
an applied background (e.g. aquaculture, blue biotech,
ﬁsheries, nutrigenomics) are encouraged to apply.
Application and contact To apply please ﬁll in the ap-
plication form and send to Jonas Coll´ en (collen@sb-roscoﬀ.fr) together with a 2-page CV before April 10th
2011.
16 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project 2. Background and experience of applicant 3.
4. We aim at mixing people with diﬀerent research
backgrounds; probably not more than one person per
institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal gender distribution.
The selected persons will be notiﬁed at the end of April
and have to conﬁrm within 7 days. We will have a wait-
ing list in case of non-conﬁrmations and cancellations.
Teachers Sandie Baldauf, U. Uppsala, SE Jonas Coll´ en,
U Paris 6, FR Simon Creer, U Bangor, UK Yves
Desdevises, U ParisVI, FR Jakob Hemmer-Hansen,
DTU-Aqua, DK Galice Hoarau, U Nordland, NO Jea-
nine Olsen, U Groningen, NL Fr´ ed´ eric Partensky, SB-
Roscoﬀ, FR Heroen Verbruggen, U Gent, BE Filip Vol-
ckaert, KULeuven, BE Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee Claudie Peron, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Jeanine Olsen, Univ Groningen, NL Jonas Coll´ en, SB-
Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
For information and application forms: Jonas Coll´ en
Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ BP 74, F-29680
ROSCOFF CEDEX France Phone: +(33)2 98 29 23
23 Fax: +(33)2 98 29 23 24 Email: collen@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Rostock Germany
EvolutionaryDemography
The International Max Planck Research School for De-
mography announces a new course:
Introduction to Evolutionary Demography (IMPRSD
189)
Start: 4 July 2011 End: 9 July 2011 Location: Max
Planck Institute for Demographic Research (MPIDR),
Rostock, Germany
Instructors:
* Daniel Levitis, MPIDR * Hal Caswell, Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution * David Thomson, Uni-
versity of Hong Kong * Annette Baudisch, MPIDR
* Alexander Scheuerlein, MPIDR * Oskar Burger,
MPIDR * Maren Rebke, MPIDRApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 113
Course description:
Understanding survival, reproduction and other life-
history events is central to the study of both demog-
raphy and evolutionary biology, and each ﬁeld has de-
veloped methods and concepts to observe patterns and
elucidate principles. The growing ﬁeld of evolutionary
demography treats demographic variables (patterns of
survival, reproduction, and development) as properties
of organisms that reﬂect evolutionary processes, just as
morphology, behavior, and physiology do. It draws on
both disciplines to search for evolutionary explanations
of demographic patterns in terms of adaptation, genet-
ics, phylogeny, and the environment. Further, it applies
demographic methods and reasoning to answering evo-
lutionary questions. Demography and evolutionary bi-
ology are conceptually uniﬁed and inextricably linked,
so the questions we want to answer can best be tackled
by traversing traditional disciplinary boundaries. This
course is intended to introduce early career researchers
from both ﬁe lds to the concepts, methods, challenges
and questions of evolutionary demography.
Course structure:
We will begin with an introduction to classical evolu-
tionary demography and the motivations for combing
evolution and demography, incorporating enough basic
evolutionary theory and demographic theory to get ev-
eryone on the same page. We will then focus on current
topics in evolutionary demography, including:
* Aging across the Tree of Life: Measures and Patterns
* Sex-speciﬁc diﬀerences in mortality patterns: Evolu-
tion in action * Modes of adaptive explanation of de-
mographic patterns: a survey * The pace and shape of
aging * The evolution of mortality of the young * Age
speciﬁc reproduction in the wild * Life-history allome-
try and Charnovian invariants
Finally, pairs of students will be asked to spend the
afternoons of the 7th and 8th preparing short presenta-
tions, to be presented on July 9th. Each pair will dis-
cuss the evolutionary basis of a diﬀerent demographic
trait or phenomenon, what is known about it and how
it can be investigated.
Organization:
For July 4-8, each morning will consist of two lectures
(one hour each) and each afternoon will have a one hour
lab. Then the afternoon of July 9th will be occupied
with short presentations by pairs of students.
Prerequisites:
Students should be familiar either with the basics of
demographic life- table methods, or with evolutionary
theory. Familiarity with Stata or R software will bevery helpful.
Examination:
Students will be evaluated on participation in class and
on short presentations.
Financial support:
There is no tuition fee for this course. Students are ex-
pected to pay their own transportation and living costs.
However, a limited number of scholarships are available
on a competitive basis for outstanding candidates.
Recruitment of students:
* Applicants should either be enrolled in a PhD pro-
gram or have received their PhD. * A maximum of 16
students will be admitted. * The selection will be made
by the MPIDR based on the applicantsˆ a scientiﬁc qual-
iﬁcations.
How to apply:
Applications should be sent by email to the MPIDR.
Please begin your email message with a statement say-
ing that you apply for course IMPRSD 189 - Introduc-
tion to Evolutionary Demography.
* You also need to include the following three docu-
ments, either in the text of the email or as attached
documents. (1) A two-page curriculum vitae, including
a list of your scholarly publications. (2) A one-page
letter from your supervisor at your home institution
supporting your application. (3) A one-page statement
of your research and how it relates to course IMPRSD
189. Please indicate whether you would like to be con-
sidered for ﬁnancial support. * Send your email to
Heiner Maier (oﬃce@imprs-demogr.mpg.de). * Appli-
cation deadline is 31 March 2011. * Applicants will
be informed whether they will be admitted by 15 April
2011.
Readings:
The course will make use of readings from:
* Baudisch, A. 2011. The pace and shape of age-
ing. Methods in Ecology and Evolution. DOI:
10.1111/j.2041-210X.2010.00087.x * Caswell, H. 2001.
Chapter 11, Matrix population models. Sinauer. *
Jones, O. R., Gaillard, J. M., Tuljapurkar, S., Alho, J.
S., Armitage, K. B., Becker, P. H., Bize, P., Brommer,
J., Charmantier, A. &
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html114 EvolDir April 1, 2011
UCopenhagen HumanPopGenet
Jun20-25
PhD Course in Human Population Genetic Analyses (5
ECTS)
June 20 -25, 2011, Dept. of Biology, University of
Copenhagen
Instructors:
Andrew G. Clark, Mark Beaumont, Anders Albrecht-
sen, Rasmus Nielsen, Line Skotte, and Ida Moltke.
This course provides a one week comprehensive intro-
duction to a number of topics and common research
tools used in analyses of human population genetic
data. Topics include: genetic drift, coalescence the-
ory, natural selection, population structure, human
disease and evolution, linkage disequilibrium, associ-
ation mapping, genomic control, haplotype structure,
IBD mapping, admixture mapping, genotyping data,
re-sequencing data, phasing and imputation, HapMap
data, 1000 genomes project, online resources.
The fee for the course is 1800 dkr (approx. US $550) for
participants who are not enrolled in a recognized PhD
or Masters program. It is free for PhD and Master’s
students. The fee does not include food and accommo-
dation.
For sign up and questions, please email: cphsummer-
course@gmail.com
Rasmus Nielsen <rasmus nielsen@berkeley.edu >
UMichigan
EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul25-29
Evolutionary Epidemiology and Public Health
The University of Michigan School of Public Health
Graduate Summer Session 2011
July 25-29, 2011
Betsy Foxman and Randolph Nesse
Course Description: New applications of evolutionary
theory to medicine are growing and helping to ex-
plain apparent paradoxes, such as rapidly increasing
rates of breast cancer, increased asthma vulnerabil-ity in certain populations and the metabolic syndrome
(For details see The Evolution Network at http://-
evolutionandmedicine.org ). Epidemiologists have be-
gun to apply these principles and ask new questions,
such as do genes that vary by latitude explain hyperten-
sion, and how might public health interventions for in-
fectious disease be ’evolution-proofed’ This course will
explore how epidemiologists and other public health
workers can make use of these advances in their own
work. Applying evolutionary theory can sharpen re-
search questions, raise new possible explanations for
observed phenomena and identify new types of expo-
sure and outcome measures.
Pre-requisites: No prior training in evolutionary biol-
ogy is assumed.
For more information and registration: http://-
www.sph.umich.edu/epid/GSS/ nesse@umich.edu
Valencia MEPPA 2011 May30-Jun3
2
SECOND ANNOUNCE
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: April 29th, 2011
Dear mailing list member,
Registration is now open for:
MEPPA11 - Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics, Phy-
logenomics, and Adaptation
Please visit the Course website for details:
http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/mol evolphylo 6ed/
This course is likely to be very competitive for seats.
Our maximum capacity is 25 seats. Early application
is recommended!
Instructors: Hernan Dopazo, Toni Gabaldon, Fran¸ cois
Serra, Jaime Huerta- Cepas, and Salvador Capella
Invited Instructors: David Posada, University of Vigo
(Spain) and Rafael Zardoya, MNCN-CSIC (Madrid,
Spain)
Duration: 5 days. May 30 to June 03, 2011
Course Fee: Eur 380, include meals. A limited number
of grants will be available.
Place: Centro de Investigacion Principe Felipe. Valen-
cia. Spain. http://www.cipf.es/ Course description:
Currently, the simplest Bioinformatics analysis usesApril 1, 2011 EvolDir 115
species comparisons in order to hypothesise the func-
tion of a novel biological sequence. Moreover, in
most Molecular Biology labs, evolutionary and phylo-
genetic concepts are constantly being used with more
or less formality: homology, similarity, evolutionary
rates, long branch attraction, rooted and unrooted
trees, monophyletic group, molecular clock, adapta-
tion, lineage eﬀects, neutralism, cladograms, phylo-
grams, etc. The course aims to provide the necessary
background to understand the basic concepts from com-
parative and evolutionary biology that are frequently
used in molecular biology and bioinformatics analyses.
The course consists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an
adequate balance between theory and computer prac-
tice, oriented to solve frequent problems and hypoth-
esis testing. The program covers the basic and ad-
vanced analysis of Phylogenetic reconstruction, Phy-
logenomic analysis of genomes and Maximum likeli-
hood tests for molecular adaptation. The software re-
sources that will be used in the practical sessions in-
clude: Phyml, Phylip, MEGA, TreePuzzle, MrBayes,
PAML, Modeltest-Protest, Jmodeltest and the Phyle-
mon 2.0 web server. (phylemon.bioinfo.cipf.es)
Please feel free to pass this information to colleagues in
your community.
Co-ordinators: Hernan Dopazo and Fran¸ cois Serra
Hernan Dopazo <hdopazo@cipf.es >
Hern´ an J. Dopazo, PhD Head of the Evolution-
ary Genomics Unit Bioinformatics & Genomics De-
partment Centro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe Felipe
c/ ep Avda. Autopista del Saler 16 (Junto al
Oceanogr´ aﬁco) 46012, Valencia, Espa˜ na Tfn: (34)
96 328 96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328 97 01
hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es/ Her-
nan Dopazo <hdopazo@cipf.es >
WoodsHole MolEvolution
Jul24-Aug3
Subject: Woods Hole Workshop in Molecular Evolution
Workshop in Molecular EvolutionMarine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Mas-
sachusetts
July 24th - August 3rd 2011
Application Deadline: April 15, 2011
CONTACT: Admissions Coordinator, admis-
sions@mbl.edu, 508-289-7401 http://www.mbl.edu/-
education/courses/special topics/mole.html Course
Directors: David Hillis, UT Austin; Mitchell Sogin,
MBL, Woods Hole
The Workshop on Molecular Evolution presents a se-
ries of lectures, discussions, and bioinformatic ex-
ercises that span contemporary topics in molecular
evolution. Since its inception in 1988, the work-
shop has encouraged the exchange of ideas between
leading theoreticians, software developers and work-
shop participants. Lectures and discussions are aug-
mented by computer laboratories focused on provid-
ing a sophisticated understanding of software includ-
ing AWTY, BEAST, Clustal W/X, FASTA, FigTree,
GARLI, MIGRATE, LAMARC, MAFFT, MrBayes,
PAML, PAUP*, PHYLIP, and SeaView. Topics in
the 2011 course include the theoretical, mathematical,
and statistical bases of phylogenetic analysis; coales-
cence theory, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian esti-
mators of population genetic parameters; comparative
genomics and systems biology; and approaches to in-
tegrating molecular evolution with biochemistry, cell
biology, developmental biology, biogeography, ecology,
and conservation biology. The workshop serves grad-
uate students, postdoctoral students, and established
faculty from around the world.
Faculty for 2011 include:
Peter Beerli, Florida State University Joseph Bielawski,
Dalhousie University Casey Dunn, Brown University
Scott Edwards, Harvard University Joseph Felsenstein,
University of Washington David Hillis, University of
Texas Mark Holder, The University of Kansas Laura
Kubatko, Ohio State University Paul Lewis, Univer-
sity of Connecticut Axel Meyer, University of Konstanz,
Germany William Pearson, University of Virginia Anto-
nis Rokas, Vanderbilt University Marc Suchard, UCLA
David Swoﬀord, Duke University Anne Yoder, Duke
University Shozo Yokoyama, Emory University Derrick
Zwickl, University of Kansas
David Hillis <dhillis@mail.utexas.edu >116 EvolDir April 1, 2011
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.