E v o l D i r
January 1, 2018
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .160
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Conferences
ArizonaStateU MutationRateEvolution Mar27-28 . . . 3
Berlin EvoDevo Feb26-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Cambridge SpeciationGenomics Mar19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Galway Ireland EvolutionOfRegeneration Jun26-29 . 4
Izmir Turkey EcolEvolution Jul18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Madison Wisconsin PopEvolQuantGenetics May13-16 5
Marseilles Evolution Sep25-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Montpellier ESEB Aug18-22 Phylogeography . . . . . . . 6
Montpellier ESEB Aug19-22 PredictingEvolution . . . 7
Montpellier ESEB PathogenEvolution CallAbstracts 7
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22 CallAbstracts . . . . . . 8
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22 Maladaptation . . . . . 8
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22 Mutation . . . . . . . . . . .9
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 Diversication . . . . . .9
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 Epigenetics . . . . . . . 10
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolApplications . .10
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionaryImmunol-
ogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionaryInference
11
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionaryManage-
ment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionResistance 12
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 FormFunction . . . . .13
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 GenomicDivergence 13
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 GlobalChange . . . . .14
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 HostParasiteCoevolu-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 Hybridization . . . . . 15
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 MorphoConvergences
15
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 MultilevelSelection 16
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 ParallelEvolution . 17Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 PhenotypicPlasticity 17
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 Phylogenetics . . . . . 18
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 PollinationFlowerEvo-
lution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 Polyploidy . . . . . . . . 19
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 RepeatsGenomeEvol 19
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 SexChromosomes . 20
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 SocialEvol . . . . . . . . 20
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 TheoryOfFitnessLand-
scapes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22 TreeComparison . . 21
Montpellier Evol Aug19-22 EvolutionOnTheEdge . .22
Montpellier Evolution2018 Aug19-22 Phylogenomics 22
Montpellier Evolution2018 Outreach Aug19-22 . . . . 23
Montpellier France Evol2018 Aug19-22 EvolutionaryEpi-
demiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-20 HumanGenomics . . . 23
Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-29 Dispersal . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Shenzhen FitnessLandscapes Apr18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
StAndrews MASAMB Mar19-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen Mar23-25 . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen Mar23-25 StdReg . . . 27
Toronto ConservationBiol Jul21-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics Mar20 . . . . . . . . . 28
UMichigan EarlyCareerScientists Mar9-11 . . . . . . . . . 28
Ventura California Speciation Mar10-15 2019 . . . . . . 29
Warsaw PolishSocietyForHumanAndEvolutionStudies
Sep24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
WashingtonDC SexRatioVariation May22-25 . . . . . . 30
Yosemite Symbiosis May4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31January 1, 2018 EvolDir 3
ArizonaStateU
MutationRateEvolution Mar27-28
Mutation Rate Evolution Meeting
Date: March 27-28th, 2018 Location: Arizona State
University, Tempe (AZ), USA
Join us on March 27-28th 2018 at Arizona State Uni-
versity's Center for Evolution and Medicine for the Mu-
tation Rate Evolution Meeting. This meeting aims to
bring together leading experts, early-career researchers,
and trainees interested in studying mutation rates in
dierent organisms. Students/Postdocs will have an
opportunity to present their work, and to network with
other colleagues in the eld.
Keynote Speakers Oskar Hallatschek, University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley, US Kelley Harris, University of Wash-
ington, Seattle, US Peter Keightley, University of Edin-
burgh, Edinburgh, UK Michael Lynch, Arizona State
University, Tempe, US Gil McVean, Oxford Big Data
Institute, Oxford, UK Susanne Pfeifer, Arizona State
University, Tempe, US Anna Selmecki, Creighton Uni-
versity Medical School, Omaha, US Anne Stone, Arizona
State University, Tempe, US
Google Travel Awards In order to foster exchange be-
tween early-career women and leading research scientists
in the eld, Google is sponsoring a limited number of
travel awards to support the participation of female
undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral fellows.
Registration Registration is free of charge but manda-
tory. Breakfast, lunch, and coee will be provided during
the meeting. The meeting is limited to 50 participants
and priority will be given to participants who are sub-
mitting an abstract to present their work at the meeting.
Registration and abstract submission is now open. Ab-
stract submission deadline: January 31st 2018.
For more information, to register, or to submit an ab-
stract, visit http://spfeiferlab.org/meeting Susanne
Pfeifer <spfeife1@asu.edu >Berlin EvoDevo Feb26-28
The note: A reminder, the registration deadline for
our conference/workshop on Patterning and Timing in
Development and Evolution is coming soon (Dec 20th).
The link: https://mbi.nus.edu.sg/events/joint-nus-hu-
workshop-on-patterning-and-timing-in-development-
and-evolution/ The cost: Free
The location: Berlin
The when: 26-28 February
The blurb: Embryonic development represents a bal-
ancing act between robustness and evolvability. For
individual organisms, developmental processes must be
robust to environmental uctuations and the inuence
of segregating mutations. But at the same time, de-
velopment must be able to evolve if populations are
to adapt. Understanding this interplay requires the
integration of genetic and evolutionary approaches, a
physical understanding of how the embryo develops,
and modern methods for assessing developmental phe-
notypes (from developmental rate to embryonic shape
to developmental gene expression proles).
Recently, there has been increasing interest in the impor-
tance of temporal regulation during development. How
such temporal regulation emerged and how it is con-
trolled at a molecular level are still poorly understood.
We aim to bring together a broad range of research
interests - from evolution to timing to cell biology - to
build potential collaborations to tackle this intriguing
problem.
David Gareld, PhD
Research Group Leader IRI Life Sciences Humboldt-
Universit at zu Berlin Philippstr. 13 (Haus 18, Rm. 224)
10115 Berlin, Germany
Oce: +49 (0)30 2093-92382 Fax: +49 (0)30 2093-47908
info: www.gareldlab.org email: david.gareld@hu-
berlin.de
David Gareld <david.gareld@hu-berlin.de >4 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Cambridge SpeciationGenomics
Mar19
We are pleased to announce a one-day meeting to ad-
dress the challenges in the eld of speciation genomics.
The meeting will be held on Monday 19th March 2018 at
St Johns College Cambridge and is organised by Simon
Martin, Mark Ravinet and Chris Jiggins.
The format will include short talks by early career re-
searchers working with data and theory and opportunity
for discussion led by more senior researchers.
Conrmed speakers so far include Anja Westram,
Camille Roux, Joana Meier, Reto Burri, Dorothea
Lindke and Simon Aeschbacher. Ole Seehausen, Konrad
Lohse, and Roger Butlin are conrmed attendees and
will help lead discussion groups.
There is a registration page now open http://-
onlinesales.admin.cam.ac.uk/conferences-and-events/-
department-of-zoology/speciation-genomics-meeting/-
speciation-genomics-meeting The registration fee
includes dinner in the evening and all tea and
coee etc. Note that accommodation is not in-
cluded 'V we recommend that you look for B&B
options at the university accommodation site <
https://www.accommodation.cam.ac.uk/ >. Note
that this meeting coincides with our annual EGGS
meeting <http://evolutionarygenetics.heliconius.org/-
2017/eggs-2018-on-march-20-cambridge/ >to be
held the following day on the 20th March 'V we
encourage you to attend both meetings. https:/-
/evolutionarygeneticsandgenomics.wordpress.com
Background: Thanks to new methods and advances
in sequencing technology, generating genomic data
for speciation research has never been so aordable,
accessible or straightforward. Huge datasets of tens of
thousands (and often many more) loci make it possible
to estimate demographic history, identify signatures
of divergent selection and quantify gene ow with
considerable accuracy. This genomic perspective has
changed our understanding of how the speciation
process unfolds. Hybridisation and introgression
need not be detrimental but instead may promote
divergence through the formation of new species,
the introduction of novel genetic variation and the
introgression of adaptive alleles. Peaks and troughs
of relative dierentiation measures (i.e. FST) that
emerged from early genome scan studies have beeninterpreted as putative ' ^A ¥speciation islands' ^A. The
rationale is simple; strong divergent selection on barrier
loci reduces eective migration at these targets and
the loci closely linked to them. However, researchers
using population genomic patterns to identify the
processes and genes involved in speciation are beginning
to recognize that factors such evolutionary history,
recombination and mutation rate variation and gene
density confound this interpretation of the genomic
landscape.
There is now an opportunity to move beyond debate
about the validity of identifying ' ^A ¥speciation islands'
^A. This meeting aims to bring together those working
on the empirical and theoretical challenges that face
speciation genomics. The meeting will begin with a
series of short seminars from researchers using novel
approaches to account for factors that confound our
understanding of the genomic landscape and will build
towards in-depth discussion in the later part of the day.
Professor of Evolutionary Biology (2014) Department
of Zoology University of Cambridge Tel: (+44)(0)1223
769021 Mob: (+44)(0) 7549-524-481 http://-
www.heliconius.org/ http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/
@mel rosina
Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge, UK. CB2 1TP
The Ecology and Evolution of Heliconius Butteries
Available through all good bookshops, or direct from
Oxford University Press
Chris Jiggins <c.jiggins@zoo.cam.ac.uk >
Galway Ireland
EvolutionOfRegeneration Jun26-29
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce our symposium \Evolution
of Regeneration in Metazoa" as part of the 7th Euro
Evo Devo meeting in Galway, Ireland, 26th-29nd june
next year (2018) http://www.evodevo2018.eu/ehome/-
evodevo2018/Welcome/ . SYNOPSIS.This symposium
is dedicated to the re-emerging eld of regeneration,
a widespread phenomenon in animals. Using a large
variety of metazoans species and modern techniques, we
intend to get a general view of the evolution of animal
regeneration as well as to test the presence of general
principles and/or shared genetic programs that under-
lie this intriguing phenomenon. A specic attention
will be given to the identity, plasticity and dierentia-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 5
tion potential of the cells required for the regeneration
processes.
Our Invited speakers are Dr Maja Adamska (Australian
National University, Canberra, Australia), Dr Karen
Echeverri (University of Minnesota, USA), Dr Uri Frank
(National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland) and Dr
Jochen Rink EMBO Young Investigator Lecture (Max
Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics,
Dresden, Germany).
We invite you to submit an abstract follow-
ing the online instructions on the Congress web-
site (http://www.evodevo2018.eu/ehome/evodevo2018/-
Registration/). Deadline for abstract submission (+
registration required) is 16th February 2018. Deadline
for early Bird Registration Fee is 13th April 2018.
Sincerely,
Dr Eric R ottinger and Dr Eve Gazave
{ Eve Gazave, PhD Charg ee de Recherche CR2 ~Aquipe
Cellules Souches, D eveloppement et Evolution Institut
Jacques Monod , CNRS UMR 7592 Universit e Paris-
Diderot ; Paris 7 B^ atiment Buon. 1e  etage; pi ece 156b
15 rue H el ene Brion 75205 Paris cedex 13 France E-mail:
eve.gazave@ijm.fr Tel (33) 1 57 27 80 03 Fax (33) 1 57
27 80 87
http://www.ijm.fr/recherche/equipes/cellules-
souches-developpement-et-evolution/ https://-
stemdevevo.wordpress.com/ ATTENTION : new
email eve.gazave@ijm.fr
Eve Gazave <eve.gazave@ijm.fr >
Izmir Turkey EcolEvolution Jul18-20
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to announce the Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Symposium in Turkey (EEBST), which will
take place this year on 18-20 July 2018 at Dokuz Eylul
University, in Izmir, Turkey.
EEBST'18 will be the fth in a series of symposia orga-
nized yearly by the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Society of Turkey. The language of the symposium is
English, and is well attended by diverse international
faculty and students from Europe, Middle East, West
Asia, and North America. The symposium also aims to
stimulate international collaborations.
Stay tuned for more information.Hope to see you in ~Azmir
Efe Sezgin, PhD.
On behalf of the EEBST'18 Organizing Committee
Efe Sezgin <efeszgn0@gmail.com >
Madison Wisconsin
PopEvolQuantGenetics May13-16
The 2018 Population, Evolutionary, and Quantitative
Genetics Conference is coming to Madison, Wisconsin
from May 13-16.
REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
NOW OPEN.
Featuring keynote speakers Trudy Mackay, Katie Pe-
ichel, and Jonathan Pritchard, #PEGQ18 aims to bring
together population, evolutionary, and quantitative ge-
neticists to promote cross-disciplinary exchange between
those doing theoretical and experimental work in these
broad but overlapping elds.
Quantitative and complex traits Population genomics
Experimental evolution Adaptation and ecological ge-
netics Statistical genetics Genome evolution Speciation
Theoretical population genetics Molecular evolution
The meeting will also feature lightning talks for poster
presenters, and presentations by candidates for the
James F. Crow Early Career Researcher Award.
Early career attendees, including students and postdocs,
will benet from a wide range of professional develop-
ment and networking opportunities. These include the
New Faculty Forum, opportunities to invite poster view-
ers, a peer review workshop from GENETICS editors,
and other workshops and events.
For more information, visit http://conferences.genetics-
gsa.org/peqg/2018/index . Organizers:
Fernando Pardo-Manuel de Villena - Chair University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Dmitri Petrov - Co-Chair Stanford University
Matthew Hahn Indiana University
Hopi Hoekstra Harvard University
Lauren M. McIntyre University of Florida
Matt Rockman New York University
Sarah Bay <SBay@genetics-gsa.org >6 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Marseilles Evolution Sep25-28
Dear all, the early dead line for the next evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles
is January 31
the meeting Will take place on September 25-28 2018
in Marseilles (South of France)
more info : aeeb.fr
The following subjects will be discussed:
* Evolutionary biology concepts and modeling; * Biodi-
versity and Systematics; * Comparative genomics ans
post-genomics (at all taxomic levels); * Functional phy-
logeny; * Environment and biological evolution; * Origin
of life and exobiology; * Non-adaptative versus adapta-
tive evolution; * The minorphyla: their useful-
ness in evolutionary biology knowledge; * Convergent
evolution * Evolution of complex traits (Evo-Devo) *
education
contact Marie-H el ene Rome
marie-helene-rome@univ-amu.fr best regards Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
Montpellier ESEB Aug18-22
Phylogeography
Dear EvolDir community,
We wanted to call your attention to a symposium that
we are organising - \Comparative and mechanistic phy-
logeography in the big data era" (S29) - for the 2018
Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology to be held in
Montpellier, France (18-22 August 2018).
We strongly encourage you to consider submitting an
abstract to this symposium if you think your research
aligns with our vision of the symposium content (de-
scribed bellow).
Abstracts are due January 15 and the list of contributed
talks and posters selected is going to be communicated
by February 28.Note that unlike many conferences, there will be a lim-
ited number of talks and posters presented. Because the
conference will be capped in size, conrmed presenters
will have the opportunity to register early in advance of
open registration.
We hope to see you there!
Roberta Damasceno, Katharine Marske, Andrea Paz,
Cynthia Riginos (organizers)
\Comparative and mechanistic phylogeography in the
big data era" Multi-taxon, multi-region investigations of
spatial genetic diversity and dierentiation enable test-
ing of long-standing hypotheses regarding inuences of
environment, topography, and specic biological traits
on intraspecic diversity. These \big data" approaches
can yield new insights into the connections between
ecology, evolution and biogeography. Whereas data
necessary for large-scale comparative analyses already
exist, and many groups are synthesizing this published
'legacy' data to explore continental to global-scale pat-
terns of genetic diversity, many practical challenges for
assembling and analyzing these datasets remain. A con-
current challenge in phylogeography is to statistically
assess potential causative mechanisms and move beyond
correlational analyses. Thus, as a multidisciplinary
eld, phylogeography should seek robust approaches
to integrate dierent and large datasets and character-
ize large-scale patterns. This symposium will feature
theoretical, analytical, and computational advances to
approach such issues by showcasing: ideas for handling
big and integrated data; methods for quantifying multi-
taxon, intraspecic patterns; and the development of
process-focused modeling tools. A reinvigorated compar-
ative and mechanistic phylogeography can be integral
to predicting future shifts in distribution ranges, spatial
patterns of functional diversity, community composition,
ecological interactions, and ecosystem services.
Dra. Roberta Damasceno P os-doc do Laborat orio
de Herpetologia Universidade de S ao Paulo rp-
dama@gmail.com
Rua do Mat ao, travessa 14, no 101 Departamento de
Zoologia Instituto de Bioci^ encias Cidade Universit aria,
Sao Paulo SP, Brasil 05508-090 +55 11 3091-7570
Roberta Damasceno <rpdama@gmail.com >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 7
Montpellier ESEB Aug19-22
PredictingEvolution
Working on evolutionary prediction? Please sub-
mit an abstract to ESEB Symposium 20 at http:/-
/evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts. We are
seeking a wide variety of talks from diverse speakers,
from basic science (e.g., repeatable patterns in evolu-
tion experiments) to applied issues (e.g., evolution in
response to climate change, drugs, etc).
Summary:
In his best-selling book Wonderful Life Stephen Jay
Gould famously argued that the process of evolution
is not predictable because it is highly contingent on
chance events. The eld of evolutionary biology has pro-
gressed enormously since then and most scientists now
agree that evolution can be predictable. Like weather
forecasting, however, our ability to make evolutionary
predictions depends on the scale and timeframe of in-
terest. And as with weather forecasting, this predictive
ability is rapidly advancing due to expanding databases
and increasingly sophisticated models. Our symposium
will bring together researchers with diverse skills and
interests working at the cutting edge of this exciting
area. Research on evolutionary prediction spans a range
of topics, from basic science (e.g., repeatable patterns
in evolution experiments) to applied issues (e.g., evolu-
tion in response to climate change or antibiotics). The
timing for this symposium is perfect given the growing
focus on evolutionary applications, from evolution in
response to medical interventions to adaption to novel
environments.
Invited speaker: Michael L assig \Predicting Evolution"
Organizers: Troy Day & Sally Otto
Troy Day <day@queensu.ca >
Montpellier ESEB
PathogenEvolution CallAbstracts
We would like to invite submissions for an ESEB sym-
posium (symposium S13) on the evolution and man-agement of pathogens during chronic infection. We
welcome scientists of all career stages, and from diverse
backgrounds. We encourage submissions from scien-
tists working on pathogens from a wide variety of study
systems, such as humans, other animals, and plants.
The abstract deadline in January 15, 2018.
For more information, please see http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts . Sympo-
sium abstract: The evolution of bacterial pathogens
is an ever increasing problem for healthcare and
agriculture. During chronic infection, a bacterial
pathogen colonizes a single host for many years and
is often recalcitrant to treatment with conventional
antibiotic therapy. For example, long-term colonization
of the lung by Mycobacterium or by Pseudomonas
presents a myriad of challenges to which the pathogen
must adapt or face extinction. The drivers of long
term infection remain poorly understood but a growing
body of evidence points, unsurprisingly, to evolutionary
processes playing a critical role and this, consequently,
raises the possibility of new treatment and management
strategies informed by evolutionary thought. For
example, evolving resistance to one antibiotic can
make pathogens more susceptible to other antibiotics,
antagonists, or parasites, when resistance mutations
show pleiotropic eects. Trade-os between pathogen
life-history traits might be leveraged to control disease
if traits selected by one treatment render a pathogen
easier to eradicate with another. This symposium
will highlight recent developments in the evolution of
bacterial pathogens during chronic infection, focusing
on how evolutionary principles could be applied in
disease management across host-pathogens systems.
We welcome people from various research elds, in-
cluding the microbiome, systems biology, experimental
evolution and mathematical modelling, who share
common interests in infectious disease biology and the
evolutionary theory of adaptation.
Invited speaker: David Guttman, University of Toronto.
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier!
Ville-Petri Friman, Alexandre Jousset, Rees Kassen,
Alex Wong, Wei Zhong
Alex Wong
Associate Professor Department of Biology Carleton
University carleton.ca/eme
Alex Wong <AlexWong@cunet.carleton.ca >8 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22
CallAbstracts
Reminder: the call for abstracts for the Joint Congress
on Evolutionary Biology will soon be closed (January
15th 2018).
Submit now! 'V http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/-
call-abstracts We are happy to inform you that ab-
stract submission is now open for next year's 2 ^nd Joint
Congress on Evolutionary Biology in Montpellier, France
(18-22 August 2018). Joint Congresses take place ev-
ery six years and bring together four of the world's
largest academic societies in the eld of evolutionary
biology: the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
<http://eseb.org >, the American Society of Natural-
ists<http://www.amnat.org/ >, the Society for the
Study of Evolution <http://www.evolutionsociety.org/
>and the Society of Systematic Biologists <http://-
www.systbio.org/ >.
Following the traditional format of ESEB conferences,
*all contributed talks and posters will be submitted
to specic symposia and selected on the basis of their
abstract by symposium organizers*.
The list of symposia is available at:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia You can
consult the list and submit an application to give a talk
or poster to the symposia of your choice. You can sub-
mit applications to *up to two symposia* from the list.
Note that if none of the topics covered by the thematic
symposia matches your research, you will have the op-
tion to submit your abstract to the Open symposium
(also in the list).
If you are a graduate student, you will have the oppor-
tunity to compete for the Mayr Award and Hamilton
Award. These awards, organized respectively by SSB
and SSE, will be given to the presenter of an outstand-
ing student talk at the Joint meeting in Montpellier.
*If you want to compete for any of these awards, you
have to submit an abstract to either the Mayr Award
symposium or Hamilton Award symposium through the
normal abstract submission procedure*.
In order to allow as many participants as possible to
present their work, and in line with ESEB tradition,
*participants can submit only one abstract as the pre-
senting author (i.e. the person who will present the
talk/poster).* There is no limit, however, to the numberof talks/posters a given person may coauthor.
The symposium organizers of both your rst and second
choice will examine your proposal and make a selection.
Symposium organizers will establish a priority list for
abstracts accepted as oral communications and will oer
the *option of presenting a poster instead of a talk* for
the abstracts that do not t in that list. Abstracts may
be rejected if they are of insucient quality, but our
general policy is to accept most poster presentations.
You will be chosen to present either a talk or a poster
in a maximum of one symposium.
In order to submit an abstract for a talk or a poster
click here 'V http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-
abstracts *Please note the following important dates:
*
*November 6 ^th 2017*: Call for abstracts opens
*January 15 ^th 2018*: Deadline for abstract submission
(i.e. application to present a talk/poster)
*February 28 ^th 2018*: Notication of acceptance
sent out and pre-registration for presenters (talks and
posters) opens
*March 12 ^th 2018:*Registration for all participants
opens **
*March 26 ^th 2018:*Oral presentations of unregistered
participants are cancelled
For further details, please see: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/ Looking forward
to meeting you in Montpellier in 2018!**
ronce ophelie <ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22
Maladaptation
Dear Colleagues:
We are excited to announce that there will be a sym-
posium on the topic of maladaptation at the 2018 Evo-
lution meeting in Montpelier, France. Please see the
symposium information below and consider applying
and/or sharing this announcement with colleagues who
may be interested.
The submission deadline is January 15th. Those
interested in speaking in this symposium can
submit abstracts for consideration here: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Sympo-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 9
sium 58. Causes of maladaptation: environmental
change, demography, inbreeding and genetic constraints
Organizers: Steven Brady, Daniel Bolnick, Anne-Laure
Ferchaud, Charles Perrier, Donald Waller
Evolutionists seek to understand how populations adapt
to environmental change and to predict the consequences.
Selection that lags the pace of environmental change and
inbreeding resulting from habitat loss and fragmentation
both act to diminish the degree to which populations are
adapted to their environments. Genetic drift in smaller
populations also acts to constrain responses to posi-
tive and purifying selection. This will tend to increase
the xation of deleterious alleles, reducing population-
wide tness. These non-adaptive forces could eventually
overwhelm adaptive ones, limiting adaptive potential
of populations. Advances in genomics now empower us
to detect and map adaptive and mal-adaptive variation
across the genome. We welcome theoretical, method-
ological and empirical contributions that: (1) assess
mal-adaptation and accumulated genetic load; (2) ex-
amine the role of inbreeding and other demographic
processes in maladaptation; (3) describe the genetic
causes of mal-adaptation including the eects of domi-
nance, linkage and identity disequilibria, epistasis, and
gene ow; (4) enhance theory on the extent of genetic
change needed to rapidly adapt to rapidly changing en-
vironments, and (5) evaluate opportunities for genetic
rescue versus the risk of extinction.
Invited speaker: Andrew Hendry Rethinking maladap-
tation
Steven Brady Assistant Professor jSouthern Connecti-
cut State University stevenpbrady.weebly.com Oce:
203-392-7206jJennings Rm 215A
brady.steven@gmail.com
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug18-22
Mutation
Dear Colleagues:
We are happy to announce a Mutation Symposium at
the Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology: Evolution
2018, a joint meeting of ESEB, ASN, SSE and SSB in
Montpellier, France (Aug 18-22, 2018).
The meeting format follows ESEB conferences, all pre-
sentations are submitted to a particular symposium.
We invite abstracts for the symposium \Fitness eectsof mutations" (S54). Please note that abstracts are due
Jan 15, 2018. http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/-
call-abstracts The invited speaker to our symposium
is Ruth G. Shaw (U. Minnesota), her talk is entitled
\Fitness eects of mutations: setting the stage for evolu-
tionary change". http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/-
symposia Symposium Abstract.
Mutation is \the ultimate source of new variation" on
which other evolutionary mechanisms may act. The
nature and properties of mutation inuence disease phe-
notypes, estimates of molecular clocks, prediction of
population trajectories, and the degree to which pop-
ulations can respond to natural or articial selection.
Emerging data suggest that mutation rates are not static,
rather vary by species, population, across areas of a chro-
mosome, as well as temporally. In addition, in some
systems somatic mutation may contribute to ecologically
important genetic variation. Furthermore, there are also
new data on the distribution of mutational eects on
phenotypes, enhancing our ability to predict mutational
eects on tness. New technologies allow us to detect
mutation at unprecedented speed and combined with
experimental approaches (e.g. mutation accumulation
studies, mutagenesis studies) to assess tness across
ecologically relevant environments, we are at an exciting
time in mutation study where established labs and early
career scientists are actively engaged. In this symposium
we aim to bring together scholars tackling these ques-
tions from molecular, eld, computational, theoretical
and experimental approaches.
Organizers: Charles Fenster (U. South Dakota);
Courtney Murren (College of Charleston
charles.fenster@sdstate.edu; murrenc@cofc.edu
\Murren, Courtney J" <MurrenC@cofc.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
Diversication
We invite the submission of abstracts to our symposium:
Experimental and theoretical studies of the origins and
consequences of diversication
at the Evolution 2018 conference August 19-22, 2018 in
Montpellier, France. Abstracts are due January 15, 2018
and can be submitted to the conference website: http:/-
/eseb2018.europa-inviteo.com/callfor/ Symposium sum-
mary: The process of diversication from a single ances-
tral genotype into two or more types which can stably10 EvolDir January 1, 2018
coexist underlies the development of the complex ecolog-
ical systems which now exist nearly everywhere on Earth.
Yet diversication is not inevitable, nor does it occur
to the same degree in all conditions. Factors such as
spatial structure or temporal heterogeneity can inuence
whether organisms diversify, evolve to be generalists, or
evolve plasticity. Furthermore, the same environment
can select for diversication in some organisms, but not
others. We invite contributions which address the causes
of diversication and also those which consider the eco-
logical and evolutionary consequences of diversication.
How does the diversication of organisms aect their en-
vironment? Does coexistence of newly diversied types
inuence the subsequent evolution of those types? This
symposium will focus on the origin and early divergence
of ecologically distinct clades from a recent common
ancestor and will highlight theoretical advances as well
as experimental studies of diversication whether in the
laboratory or in the eld.
Invited speaker: Michael Travisano, University of Min-
nesota Organizers: Vaughn Cooper and Caroline Turner,
University of Pittsburgh
Caroline Turner <cbt12@pitt.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
Epigenetics
Dear Colleagues,
We welcome abstract submissions to our symposium
\Epigenetics and Adaptation" (symposium #48) for the
2018 Joint SSE+ESEB Congress in Montpellier, France
Abstracts may be submitted at: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts The
deadline for abstract submission is January 15th 2018
*** symposium #48: Epigenetics and Adaptation ***
It has become clear that epigenetic mechanisms are of-
ten involved in organismal responses to the environment,
and at the same time, that part of the epigenetic code
is transgenerationally stable. However, the extent to
which these two phenomena are linked and contribute
to the adaptive capacity of natural populations remains
unclear. So far, most knowledge about the determi-
nants of epigenetic variation comes from studies of a
few model species. However, high-resolution analysis
methods are increasingly being adopted to investigate
epigenetic variation also in non-model species and in nat-
ural environments. This rapidly broadens our knowledgeof the patterns, causes and consequences of epigenetic
variation in natural systems. In this session, we will
provide an update of this research eld, including stud-
ies on both plants and animals in the goal to better
understand the stability of inherited epigenetic marks,
the type of sequences aected in the genome, the eects
of epige netic variants on phenotypic variation, and the
epigenetic mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity
and adaptation.
Invited speaker: Christoph Grunau, University of Per-
pignan
Organizers: Oliver Bossdorf, Martin Laporte, J er emy
Le Luyer, Koen Verhoeven
\K.Verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl"
<K.Verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolApplications
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce our symposium - Celebrat-
ing 10 years of Evolutionary Applications and a look to
the future (symposium 66) - as part of the Evolution
2018 Joint Congress in Montpellier, France, 19th-22nd
August next year.
SYNOPSIS. Until a decade ago, concepts from evolu-
tionary biology were rarely applied to elds of applied
relevance, such as medicine, food production and envi-
ronmental health. This is despite some notable contribu-
tions highlighting the importance of human-driven evo-
lutionary change and their consequences. In 2008, how-
ever, two important publications appeared that voiced
the importance of evolution to practical issues and with
this paced the way to establish a new journal. The new
journal was named 'Evolutionary Applications' and it
became the rst and only peer reviewed (open access)
journal providing a top tier outlet for research studies
pertaining to applied evolution. Since then, an ever
expanding number of studies have been published in
this journal, and elsewhere, and have contributed to
rmly establish the eld of applied evolution as a rele-
vant discipline that can no longer be ignored in human
aairs. This symposium will celebrate and showcase the
past 10 years of Evolutionary Applications by conveying
some of the most active researchers in this eld. We
will present a broad array of both empirical and theo-
retical research across wide range of taxonomic groupsJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 11
to address pressing issues pertaining to human health,
food security, global change, ecosystem functioning and
the conservation of biodiversity.
Our Invited speaker is Fr ed eric Thomas who will talk
about: \Evolutionary cancerology: Where are we and
where should we go?"
We invite you to submit an abstract following the online
instructions on the Congress website. The Symposium
will be sponsored by Wiley and we anticipate that we
will be able to cover registration fees for some of the
participants. Deadline for submission is 15th January
2018.
Sincerely, Louis Bernatchez, Britt Koskella (organisers)
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolutionaryImmunology
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce our symposium \Evolu-
tionary immunology: tradeos and mechanisms" (S15)
at the 2018 Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology
in Montpellier, France, (August 19th-22nd) with Scott
Edwards as the keynote speaker.
Submissions are encouraged from scientists from diverse
backgrounds with the goal of exploring how studies of
disease can advance evolutionary biology and encourage
evolutionary applications in medicine.
SYNOPSIS: There is growing interest in the role of
trade-os on the evolution of host defense strategies,
such as competition between resistance vs. tolerance
mechanisms, protection against a diversity of foreign
invaders vs. vulnerability to autoimmune and inam-
matory disorders, or exposure to multiple coevolving
pathogens. Excitingly, advances in high-throughput se-
quencing technologies present the opportunity to move
beyond candidate gene approaches to study host resis-
tance using unbiased whole-genome approaches of both
the host and pathogen. In addition, genome-wide asso-
ciation study (GWAS) approaches could also reveal the
relative importance of select genes of large eect versus
many genes of small eect across the genome for disease
resistance. Thus, GWAS oer the potential to reveal
new insights into the genetic basis of parasite-mediated
selection on host and pathogen genetic diversity. This
symposium will also explore how co-evolution shapesasymmetric tness landscapes that result in apparent
suboptimal immune function. Given the recent explo-
sion of autoimmune disorders in recent decades, we
especially encourage presentations that investigate this
pattern through evolutionary immunological studies of
trade-os between resistance and autoimmune diseases.
Our invited speaker, Scott Edwards, will talk about \Be-
yond candidate genes in ecological immunology: some
examples from birds."
The deadline for abstract submission is January 15,
2018. For further information please see http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia Sincerely,
Jamie Winternitz, Jessie Abbate, Randolph Nesse, Frank
R^A^A1hli (organizers)
Jamie Winternitz Emmy Noether Group for Evo-
lutionary Immunogenomics Department of Evolu-
tionary Ecology Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Biology August-Thienemann-Str. 2, 24306
Ploen, Germany Email: jcwinternitz@gmail.com
Web: http://www.jcwinternitz.com Jamie Winternitz
<jcwinternitz@gmail.com >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolutionaryInference
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions to our sym-
posium on \From theory to genome-wide data: inferring
selection, demography, gene ow and admixture" (S42)
at the joint Evolution 2018 conference in Montpellier,
France. Our invited speaker is Dr. Mattias Jakobsson
from Uppsala University.
Abstracts may be submitted at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts - the
deadline is January 15th 2018.
Symposium summary: Population genomics has shown
great use in understanding and reconstructing evolu-
tionary processes and histories of populations. The
increasing availability of genome-wide datasets allows
investigation of numerous aspects of this evolutionary
history including comparison of theoretical expectations
to empirical datasets. Understanding the relative im-
portance of natural selection and adaptation in the
context of random genetic drift, population structure,
mutation, and genetic linkage remains a central chal-
lenge in evolutionary studies. In this context, adapting12 EvolDir January 1, 2018
and advancing classical population genetics tools to
the study of genomic data has become crucial to in-
fer increasingly complex demographic processes such as
population size changes over time, and complex gene
ow and admixture patterns. Furthermore, identifying
signatures of adaptive and deleterious processes at the
genomic level requires new theoretical developments, to
assess for example whether selection occurs on standing
genomic variation, and how often structural as opposed
to single-nucleotide variants contribute to adaptive evo-
lution. Bridging the gaps between theory, experimental
evidence, and applications to real datasets requires the
use of sophisticated and highly intensive computational
methods such as Approximate Bayesian Computation
(ABC) or Monte Carlo Markov Chains (MCMC). We
aim at presenting theoretical advances, new method-
ological developments, and applications to data in all
kinds of organisms.
Kimberly Gilbert, Nathaniel Sharp, Paul Verdu, and
Fr ed eric Austerlitz
kimberly.gilbert@iee.unibe.ch
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolutionaryManagement
Dear all,
you have seen several recent emails on the next evolu-
tion congress in Montpellier in 2018. We would like
to draw your attention on the symposium 76: \Evo-
lutionary management of wild populations" where we
would like to exchange on evolution, conservation and
management, whatever the species and ecosystems. You
can see the abstract below.
Here is the call, deadline January 15th: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Abstract:
Through the direct and indirect eects of human activi-
ties, global change is a major threat for biodiversity and
for the associated ecosystem services. This is also an
important evolutionary challenge for many species with
several potential responses: acclimation, genetic adap-
tation, range shift, local or global extinction. Adequate
management of biodiversity should take into account
the main evolutionary factors acting on these responses
such as connectivity, drift, local selection. The study of
these processes is now strengthened by the integration of
analytical and genomic approaches (e.g. for biodiversity
surveys or for adaptation studies). This symposium willdiscuss why and how evolution can and should be inte-
grated into management and conservation practice. It
will be opened to dierent species and ecosystems (both
terrestrial and marine), with a focus on wild populations,
exploited or not. The interaction with socio-economic
processes will also be discussed, with the goal or mak-
ing common and idiosyncratic patterns emerge across
biomes. Empirical and theoretical communications are
welcome.
Invited speaker: Sean Hoban \Conservation genetics
and consequences for management"
Didier Aurelle and Bruno Fady
didier.aurelle@univ-amu.fr ; bruno.fady@inra.fr
\didier.aurelle@univ-amu.fr" <didier.aurelle@univ-
amu.fr >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
EvolutionResistance
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission for our
symposium on \The evolution of resistance" (S12) at
the Evolution 2018 conference in Montpellier, France.
The invited speaker is Dr. Claudia Bank from the Gul-
benkian Institute.
Please submit your abstract at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts - the
deadline is January 15th 2018.
Summary: The rapid evolution of resistance to xeno-
biotics among viruses, microbes, plants, and insects is
a compelling example of rapid evolution in action and
a major challenge of the XXIst century. Resistance
to antivirals, antibiotics, herbicides, fungicides, and in-
secticides each have distinct ecologies, however, each
provide a unique opportunity for the study of adapta-
tion in real time. Resistance research occurs at both the
applied and basic levels: applied work leads to crucial
policies designed to limit the emergence and spread of
resistance, whereas basic research provides a concep-
tual understanding of the nature of adaptation. This
symposium aims at bringing together researchers from
dierent backgrounds working on the evolution of resis-
tance from an ecological and evolutionary perspective.
Progress in sequencing technology, high-throughput ex-
perimental methods, and mathematical and statistical
modelling allow for sophisticated approaches to tackleJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 13
key questions su ch as: Is the convergent evolution of
resistance due to parallel molecular changes? Which
species- and population-level characteristics determine
the rate of adaptation? What are the costs of and extent
of epistasis for resistance mutations? How does resis-
tance evolve under complex spatiotemporal patterns of
selection? We welcome submissions of experimental,
observational, and theoretical work on the broad topic
of resistance evolution, and are particularly interested
in those that bridge several of these approaches.
Best wishes,
Fran cois Blanquart & Julia Kreiner
\francois.blanquart@college-de-france.fr"
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
FormFunction
Dear colleagues,
The 2nd Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology will
be held in Montpellier (France) in August 19-22, 2018
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org .Abstracts are wel-
come for the symposium S25 - MACROEVOLUTION-
ARY DYNAMICS OF FORM-FUNCTION RELATION-
SHIPS organized by Christine B ohmer, Alexandra Hous-
saye, Brandon Kilbourne, Martha Mu noz, Josef Uyeda.
End of call for contributed talks/posters: January 15,
2018.
It's our great pleasure that Stephanie Pierce from Har-
vard University accepted our invitation to give a talk
as invited speaker in our symposium!
By focusing on the relationships between form, function,
fossils and phylogeny, this symposium aims to bring
together experts in three elds: in vivo organismal func-
tion, reconstruction of function in fossil taxa, and phylo-
genetic comparative methods and trait evolution. http:/-
/evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia ABSTRACT
Macroevolutionary studies applied to comparative and
paleontological datasets have revealed much about the
dynamics of adaptation across deep time. While such
studies commonly examine the evolution of morphology,
an important intermediary connecting adaptive land-
scapes to phenotypic traits is organismal performance.
Performance generally more closely relates to organismal
tness and may exhibit very dierent dynamics than
the morphological traits underlying them. Thus, under-
standing the biomechanics and performance of biological
systems can provide key insights into the connectionsbetween macroevolutionary models and adaptive land-
scapes and give greater insights into the functional and
ecological implications of major evolutionary transitions.
Recent advances in the collection and availability of per-
formance data from comparative and paleontological
datasets combined with novel macroevolutionary and
biomechanical models are allowing researchers to iden-
tify predictable patterns of evolution in response to
phylogenetically replicated ecological shifts. By focus-
ing on the relationships between form, function, fossils
and phylogeny, this symposium will bring together ex-
perts in functional morphology and biomechanical mod-
eling with developers and practitioners of phylogenetic
comparative methods{with the goal of cultivating a
deeper relationship between macroevolutionary models
and biomechanical data and theory.
Your contribution is highly appreciated! In order to
submit your abstract, please use the following link that
will lead you to the ocal conference website: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Christine
B ohmer (on behalf of the organizers)
tini.boehmer@gmail.com
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
GenomicDivergence
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce our symposium - Towards
an integrated understanding of genomic and phenotypic
divergence - which will be taking place at the Evolution
2018 Joint Congress in Montpellier, France, 19th-22nd
August next year.
\Identifying the molecular basis of adaptation and re-
productive isolation has relied heavily on investigating
genomic landscapes of dierentiation. Although this
has undoubtedly increased our understanding of both
adaptation and speciation, it has also become clear that
genomic landscapes are a complex product of a diverse
array of processes. The extent to which evolutionary pro-
cesses related to adaptation and speciation (including
natural and sexual selection), as opposed to unrelated
processes (including, for example, background selection,
genetic drift, and gene ow), contribute to the evolution
of landscapes of dierentiation remains unclear. We
would also like to know how genome structure, gene
density, mutation and recombination rate variation may
have modulated these processes.14 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Similarly, we still know little about the eect of the
genetic architecture of the phenotypes involved, or the
role of phenotypically plastic traits (including learning)
on genomic landscapes. From another viewpoint, how
is phenotypic dierentiation aected by these same fac-
tors? How are loci underlying ecological traits, mating
cues and preferences arranged in the genome? And
how does this, and their ecological, developmental and
genetic interactions, inuence the evolution of reproduc-
tive isolation?
Ultimately we would like to understand the divergence of
genomes in the context of the evolution of phenotypes on
which selection acts, and vice versa. This symposium
will consider both theoretical and empirical research
aiming to better understand genomic and phenotypic
divergence in the context of speciation and adaptation."
Our main speaker is Stuart Baird, who will talk on
\Maintaining perspective in the study of speciation".
We invite researchers who are interested in addressing
questions of speciation and adaptation using a combi-
nation of phenotypic, ecological and genomic data to
participate.
To submit an abstract, see here. Please note the deadline
for submission is 15th January 2018.
Reto Burri, Violaine Llaurens, David Marques, Richard
Merill, Marina Rafajilovi ~A & Mark Ravinet
Mark Ravinet <mark.ravinet@ibv.uio.no >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
GlobalChange
Dear Colleagues,
We welcome abstract submissions to our symposium on:
\Rapid Evolutionary Responses to Global Change"
For the 2018 Joint SSE+ESEB Congress in Montpellier,
France
Abstracts may be submitted at: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts ***The
deadline is January 15th 2018***
Title of the Symposium: Rapid Evolutionary Responses
to Global Change
Global climate change ranks among the greatest threats
facing humanity, and evolutionary responses will be most
certainly needed for many species to avoid extinction.
While there is mounting evidence for species responsesto global change, we still lack the ability to predict
whether and the extent to which populations could re-
spond to this change. This Symposium attempts to
consolidate state-of-the-art knowledge on evolutionary
responses and enhance our capacity to make predic-
tions about adaptation and extinction to global change.
Specically, we need to increase our understanding of
what role evolutionary processes play in species range
shifts, what types and number of genetic mutations are
most likely to be adaptive, or what is the importance
of genetic adaptive evolution vs phenotypic plasticity.
These questions need to be explored in a variety of
biotic and abiotic stresses as they might have dramati-
cally dierent natures, namely temperature rises, severe
droughts, acidication and salinity decline of the seas,
or new pests. We invite work on wild populations, ex-
perimental evolution, quantitative genetic experiments,
and theoretical population genetic models, and we en-
courage participants to discuss from such diverse angles
the question of rapid evolution and adaptation. We plan
to use this symposium as a launching point to integrate
knowledge across disciplines and stimulate discussion
on areas that require further investigation, so that we
could gain fundamental insights.
Invited Speaker: Dmitri Petrov, Stanford University Or-
ganizers: Carol Lee, Moises Exposito-Alonso, Johannes
Scheepens, Fran cois Vasseur, Thorsten Reusch
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Professor Center of Rapid Evo-
lution (CORE) and Department of Integrative Biology
430 Lincoln Drive, Birge Hall University of Wisconsin
Madison, WI 53706 carollee@wisc.edu
http://carollee.labs.wisc.edu Carol Eunmi Lee
<carollee@wisc.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
HostParasiteCoevolution
We would like to highlight our symposium entitled
'New Horizons in Host-Parasite Co-Genomics and Co-
Evolution',
to be held during the *Joint Evolution Meeting in Mont-
pellier* (France) in August 2018 and featuring our in-
vited speaker Charissa de Bekker. Abstract submission
is now open (deadline is January 15)!
This Meeting is the largest of its kind in the eld of
Evolutionary Biology. It is a joint conference of theJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 15
European Society for Evolutionary Biology, the Ameri-
can Society of Naturalists, the Society for the Study of
Evolution, and the Society of Systematic Biologists. In
this setting, our symposium will provide a prime spot to
showcase your most exciting research on host-parasite
coevolution.
Symposium description: Host-parasite co-evolution
represents one of the most dynamic processes in evo-
lution. Much of the research on the signatures of co-
evolutionary dynamics to date has typically focused on
only a single interactant, or are limited to the study of ex-
tant populations, and these omissions impede the under-
standing of the reciprocal nature of the co-evolutionary
process. Our symposium will be presented in the ex-
plicit context of looking at how the members of a co-
evolutionary process interact at the molecular, cellular
and physiological levels, thereby generating a range of
signatures of the co-evolutionary process both in histor-
ical and recently derived samples. The aim of this sym-
posia is to create bridges among a range of disciplines
in biology, combining talks featuring complementary
expertise in empirical (genomics, proteomics, bioinfor-
matics, ancient DNA, and environmental DNA) and a
computational/theory focused methodologies in order
to synthesize what we know on how the genome of two
species interact and co-evolve through time. The 2018
Joint Congress would be an excellent time to present
these exciting new avenues for understanding the many
facets of co-evolution.
Invited speaker: Charissa de Bekker (University of
Central Florida, USA) will give a talk entitled \Ge-
nomics as a way to elucidate the interactions between
behavior manipulating fungi and their ant hosts" The
de Bekker lab studies the co-evolution between a fun-
gal parasite manipulating the behavior of Carpenter
ants as a model system to study how a microbe can
manipulate the behavioral output of an animal's brain.
http://biology.cos.ucf.edu/debekkerlab/ Please see here
for a list of all symposia and abstract info: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia Organizers:
Nadia Aubin-Horth, Sebastien Calvignac-Spencer, Di-
eter Ebert, Peter Fields, Tobias Lenz
\lenz@evolbio.mpg.de" <lenz@evolbio.mpg.de >Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
Hybridization
We are pleased to invite abstract submission to our excit-
ing symposium that focuses on the consequences of hy-
bridization for the 2018 Joint Congress on Evolutionary
Biology. Please see description and details below, and
consider submitting an abstract. The deadline for ab-
stract submission is January 15th 2018. Link to abstract
submission: http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-
abstracts Title: Consequences of hybridization: from
swamping to speciation
Organizers: Meredith L. Cenzer, Aaron Comeault,
Joana Meier and Anna Runemark
Invited speaker: Molly Schumer
Abstract: Hybridization, although it occurs across the
tree of life, has historically been treated as the result
of rare mistakes that have little eect on important
evolutionary processes. Recent advances in sequenc-
ing technologies have greatly facilitated the detection
of hybridization and we now recognize interspecic hy-
bridization as a common phenomenon that can either
generate or swamp diversity at the level of the genotype,
phenotype, and species. The goal of this symposium is
to forge connections between, and integrate, studies ad-
dressing the diverse consequences of hybridization, from
divergence despite of gene ow to hybridization facilitat-
ing adaptation or speciation. We are targeting speakers
applying approaches that range from ecological and be-
havioral studies of the proximate eects of hybridization
to genomic or theoretical studies exploring the conse-
quences of historical and contemporary hybridization
on genomic dierentiation and diversication.?
Anna Runemark <anna.runemark@ibv.uio.no >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
MorphoConvergences
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions to our
symposium \From development to function: what does16 EvolDir January 1, 2018
drive morphological convergences?" (S23) at the 2 ^nd
Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology in Montpellier,
France (August 2018).
Our invited speaker is Karen Sears from UCLA, Los
Angeles, USA.
Abstracts may be submitted at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts The
deadline is January 15th, 2018.
Symposium summary:
Convergent traits are very informative on the nature of
processes driving, channeling or constraining evolution.
Recurrent questions are whether convergent evolution
is driven by adaptive or neutral processes and following
internal (e.g. developmental gene networks, ontogeny)
or external constraints (e.g. competition, environmental
changes). Here, we want to focus on convergent evo-
lution of morphological traits. This focus is necessary
because the above-mentioned questions are made espe-
cially challenging by very complex relationships between
genes, development and morphology on one hand, and
morphology and function on the other hand.
The symposium will be dedicated to the origins of mor-
phological convergences in animals and plants. The aim
is to highlight how developmental mechanisms on the
one hand, and functional characteristics on the other
hand, may explain the multiple occurrences of traits
both in the fossil record and in extant species, in well-
controlled phylogenetic contexts. It will be an opportu-
nity for dierent communities of evolutionary biologists
(e.g. geneticists, developmental biologists, paleobiolo-
gists, anatomists) to share their views on convergent
evolution.
Helder GOMES RODRIGUES and Sophie PANTA-
LACCI
helder.gomes-rodrigues@umontpellier.fr
sophie.pantalacci@ens-lyon.fr
Helder Gomes Rodrigues <helder.gomes-
rodrigues@umontpellier.fr >Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
MultilevelSelection
Dear EvolDir Community,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission to our
symposium \Multi-level Selection and the Origins of
Life" (S11) at the Evolution 2018 conference in Mont-
pellier (France). We are excited to explore the overlap
between origins of life theories and classical organismal
evolutionary biology, with an emphasis on how selection
can operate at the chemical, individual, and population
levels to foster abiogenesis.
Abstract submission is open until January, 15th 2018
at: http:// evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Our invited speaker is Dr. Wim Hordijk, an expert on
autocatalytic set theory.
Our symposium abstract:
How living systems evolve from non-living matter is
one of the greatest unsolved scientic problems. New
paleontological data suggests that life might have arisen
very soon after Earth became habitable and new models
suggest that chemical systems with some life-like proper-
ties might emerge more easily than previously suspected.
As a result, evolutionary biologists are becoming more
involved in origin of life science, a eld that has been
dominated historically by chemists, geologists, and the-
oretical physicists. A role for evolutionary biology is
highly relevant given that the capacity for adaptive evo-
lution is often viewed as the primary dening feature of
life. Furthermore, multi-level selection theory is proving
relevant insofar as the emergence of collectively autocat-
alytic chemical systems (of which life is an example) is
analogous to the emergence of higher-level individuals
(e.g., multicellular organisms) as new targets of selec-
tion. The symposium will cover both theoretical work
and the role of evolutionary theory in guiding empirical
research.
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier!
David Baum (dbaum@wisc.edu), Michael Travisano
(travisan@umn.edu), and Niles Lehman (niles@pdx.edu)
\niles@pdx.edu" <niles@pdx.edu >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 17
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
ParallelEvolution
Dear colleagues,
We invite abstract submission to our symposium at the
joint Evolution 2018 meeting in Montpellier, France.
Our symposium is titled: $B!H(BThe molecular basis of
convergent evolution: shared and unique features $B!I(B
(S22).
Our invited speaker is Dr. Graham Coop, from the
University of California at Davis. His talk is titled:
$B!H(BPopulation Genomics of Convergence $B!I(B.
Abstracts can be submitted at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts. Abstract
deadline is January 15, 2018.
Symposium Summary:
Examples of convergent evolution, where independent
populations repeatedly evolve similar phenotypes in sim-
ilar environments, are heralded in evolutionary biology
as strong evidence for natural selection and adaptation.
Recent methodological advances for detecting conver-
gent evolution in genomic data make it increasingly
possible to investigate how taxa evolve under similar se-
lection pressures. In some instances, populations evolve
dierent phenotypic solutions to the same challenge.
In other instances, the same phenotypes may evolve
by similar or dierent genetic means. Thus, there is a
continuum of varying degrees of convergence (or, par-
allelism) at the molecular or phenotypic level. Even
in lineages famous for convergence, unique features of
evolution within populations often outnumber shared
features among populations. To explain why conver-
gent evolution occurs inconsistently, we need to answer
lingering questions such as: Are similar or dierent ge-
netic architectures are tapped to achieve convergence?
Are individual traits that are frequently gained and lost
during evolution more likely to have a simple genetic
basis? Does repeated loss of traits require dierent
genetic pathways and generate dierent genomic sig-
natures than repeated gain of traits? Do pleiotropy
and other genetic constraints bias evolution towards
convergence? To what extent are selective pressures
really repeated among ostensibly similar environments?
This symposium invites empirical and methodological
abstracts that investigate the genetic and ecological
underpinnings of convergent and unique evolution atmultiple biological levels, with an emphasis on genetic
architecture.
Darrin Hulsey, Susanne McGaugh, Marie Semon, Yoel
Stuart
yestuart@utexas.edu
Yoel E Stuart <yestuart@utexas.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
PhenotypicPlasticity
Dear EvolDir Community,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission to our
symposium \ Role of phenotypic plasticity in evolu-
tion: Where are we now? (S46) at the Evolution 2018
conference in Montpellier (France). We are excited to
hear about research exploring the relationship between
the plastic responses observed within a generation and
the evolutionary changes observed across generations.
We are particularly interested in capturing a diversity
of perspectives from theoretical to empirical studies,
molecular to whole organism, and laboratory to the
eld environments.
Abstract submission is open until January, 15th 2018
at: http:// evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Our invited speaker is: Dr. Carl D. Schlichting, who has
played an instrumental role in cultivating an increased
appreciation for the role of plasticity in evolution.
Our symposium abstract: Over the past decades there
has been a resurgence of interest in evaluating the role
of phenotypic plasticity in micro- and macroevolution.
This growing body of work has provided new insights
on the complex relationship between the environment
as both a cue that predictably alters the distribution of
molecular, physiological, morphological, and behavioral
phenotypes via plasticity, and as a source of selection
acting on this variation. For example, the development
of new theory has explored how plasticity, demogra-
phy, and evolution interact when environments change.
Molecular methods have provided new insights into how
patterns of gene expression are altered by the environ-
ment, the expression. Lastly, eld and common garden
studies are challenging long-held assumptions on how
the costs, benets, and limits of plasticity inuence evo-
lutionary change. These and other recent developments,
make the timing of this symposium tting to assess
$B!H(Bwhere we are $B!I(B. We will welcome speakers18 EvolDir January 1, 2018
across a broad range of sub-disciplines who are asking
the type of questions that are changing our views on
the interplay between plasticity and evolution.
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier!
Cameron Ghalambor (cameron1@colostate.edu), Patri-
cia Gibert (patricia.gibert@univ-lyon1.fr)
Ghalambor,Cameron Professor Department of Biol-
ogy Colorado State University Fort Collins, CO 80523
cameron1@colostate.edu
"Ghalambor,Cameron\ <Cameron.Ghalambor@colostate.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
Phylogenetics
We would like to call your attention to SYMPOSIUM
S30: Novel Approaches in Phylogenetic Comparative
Methods for Modelling Trait Evolution, that will be
held in the context of the Evolution 2018 conference
next August in Montpellier. More details: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia Deadline for
abstract submissions is January 15, and notication
on the acceptance of abstracts will be provided before
registration to the conference opens.
Funding is available for supporting the participation
of students and early-career researchers, to contribute
to travel and/or dependent care expenses: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/travel-grants We hope
to see you in Montpellier,
The symposium organizers C ecile An e, Julien Clavel,
Michael Collyer, Alejandro Gonzalez-Voyer, Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou, Susana Magall on
{ Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou
Assistant Researcher CIBIO/InBIO, Centro de Inves-
tiga c ao em Biodiversidade e Recursos Gen eticos Uni-
versity of Porto Campus Agr ario de Vair ao, 4485-661
Vairao PORTUGAL
http://antigonik.wix.com/akaliontzopoulou http:/-
/cibio.up.pt/people/details/akaliont http://-
aphylogenetics.wix.com/phylogenetics Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou <antigoni@cibio.up.pt >Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
PollinationFlowerEvolution
Dear colleagues,
We invite abstract submission to our symposium at the
joint Evolution 2018 meeting in Montpellier, France.
Our symposium is titled: Floral evolution: breeding sys-
tems, pollinators, and beyond (S70). Dr. Nina Sletvold,
from the University of Uppsala, Sweden, is the invited
speaker. Her talk is entitled \Abiotic factors, biotic con-
text (antagonists, community) and pollinator-mediated
selection".
Abstracts can be submitted at http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts. Abstract
deadline is January 15, 2018. Talks and posters of this
symposium will be invited to submit for publication
in a special issue of the International Journal of Plant
Sciences. We encourage you to present your new
exciting results on pollination/oral evolution and
we are looking forward to a great symposium and an
excellent special issue.
Symposium abstract: Pollinator-mediated selection is
the major paradigm dominating the theory of oral
evolution. It has been proposed as the major force
directing oral trait evolution, from ower colour to
phenology and oral shape. But some recent studies
have raised questions about the relative importance of
pollinators as selective agents on oral traits. Herbi-
vores and abiotic stresses may counterbalance and mask
pollinator-mediated selection. In addition, a plant breed-
ing system can aect pollinator attraction and impact
oral evolution. These processes can all be inuenced by
anthropogenic changes such as habitat loss and global
warming. Finally, the genetic architecture of oral traits
may constrain oral evolution and despite the major
impact of oral shape on plant reproductive success, the
quantitative exploration of oral shape, its evolution
and diversity, and its molecular basis have received little
attention. In this symposium, we intend to broaden
the scope of pollination ecology in order to enhance our
ability to detect the evolutionary consequences of plant-
pollinator interactions. We propose to bring together
new and exciting studies that shed light on evolutionary
processes that shape owers and reproductive organs in
plants. Emphasis will be given to factors beyond polli-
nation and factors that interact with pollination, from
co-acting selective agents to the genetic basis of oralJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 19
traits. The proposed symposium will emphasize the
multifaceted process of natural selection and reexamine
established paradigms in the light of new ndings.
Organizers: Johanne Brunet, USDA-ARS and Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison, USA. Diane Byers, Illinois
State University. Eric Imbert, University of Montpel-
lier, France. Yuval Sapir, Tel Aviv University, Israel.
J urg Sch onenberger and Yannick Staedler, University
of Vienna, Austria.
Yuval Sapir, PhD The Botanical Garden School of
Plant Sciences and Food Security Tel-Aviv University,
Tel Aviv, 69978 Israel Tl: +972(0)3-6407354 (lab);
+972(0)54-7203140 (mobile)http://botanic.tau.ac.il/-
http://labsapir.wix.com/labsapir Plant Ecology Con-
ference, Tel Aviv 29-30 Jan 2018
https://labsapir.wixsite.com/plant-ecology-2018 yuval
sapir<sapiryuval@gmail.com >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
Polyploidy
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to invite abstract submission to our sympo-
sium on \*Ecological and evolutionary genomics of poly-
ploidy"* (S55) at the Evolution 2018 conference in Mont-
pellier, France (*http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/-
symposia )*.
Abstract submission is open until *15 january 2018*,
see: http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Symposium abstract: Whole genome duplication
(i.e. polyploidy) appears as a central process generat-
ing biodiversity and adaptation. The last decade has
seen tremendous progress in deciphering large, complex
plant and animal genomes, providing an unprecedented
opportunity to perform comparative analyses and to
decipher the impact of polyploid genome dynamics on
phenotypic evolution. Understanding the genetic and
genomic consequences of genome duplication on physi-
ology, development, species evolution and ecology repre-
sents critical challenges of the post-genomic era. This
symposium aims at promoting knowledge exchanges
and discussion on the developments made in the recent
years to expand the perspective of our understanding
to various evolutionary time scales (i.e. neo-polyploids,
stabilized polyploids that share paleoduplication events)
and to both natural systems of ecological interests and
domesticated systems of economic importance, thuslling an important gap in the knowledge of genomic
determinants of phenotypic novelties that allow species
expansion, adaptation and domestication.
Invited speaker: Dr.Jonathan F Wendel (Iowa State
University, Ames USA).
Organizers: Malika AINOUCHE (University of Rennes,
France) & Olivier PANAUD (University of Perpignan,
France).
{ Malika AINOUCHE UMR CNRS 6553 Ecologie Bio-
diversit e Evolution Universit e de Rennes 1 B^ at 14A,
Campus de Beaulieu 35 042 Rennes Cedex (France) Tel.
(+33) (0)2 23 23 51 11
Malika Ainouche <malika.ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
RepeatsGenomeEvol
Dear colleagues,
We are accepting abstracts for a symposium on \The
role of repetitive genetic elements in genome evolution
and adaptation and speciation" at the Joint Congress
on Evolutionary Biology (18-22 August 2018) in Mont-
pellier, France.
The abstract deadline is 15 January. Symposium details
are below:
Invited speaker: C edric Feschotte \Mobile DNA as cat-
alyst of convergent evolution"
Summary: Repetitive DNA is ubiquitous in eukaryotes.
Work over several decades has revealed a staggering
diversity of repetitive elements, including microsatel-
lites, transposable elements (TEs), and large blocks of
tandemly repeated sequences (satellite DNA). These
repeats are associated with essential chromosomal fea-
tures, such as centromeres and telomeres, and mediate
recombination, transcriptional regulation, and struc-
tural rearrangements. TE evolution is especially dy-
namic: TEs are usually silenced through epigenetic
mechanisms; however occasional bursts of transposition
occur, with major genomic consequences. Comparative
analyses show that lineage-specic cycles of activity and
extinction alter the TE content of genomes, and aect
their diversity and age. TE activity can give birth to
new genes and result in the reshaping of regulatory net-
works. This turnover of repeats, both satellite DNA
and TEs, may contribute to genomic and phenotypic di-
versity, and even lead to reproductive isolation between20 EvolDir January 1, 2018
species. New advances in genome sequencing, including
long read technologies, have circumvented the inher-
ent diculties in sequencing repeats, and yielded new
insights into the landscape of repeats across genomes,
their structural features, and functional roles. The focus
of this symposium is on the timely topic of repeat evo-
lution and its impact on biological diversity, adaptation,
and speciation.
Organizers: Fr ed eric Brunet, Amanda Larracuente,
Matthias Weissensteiner
Submit your abstract by 1/15 and choose symposium
S28. http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
We hope to see you there!
alarracu@bio.rochester.edu
mh.weissensteiner@gmail.com rederic.brunet@ens-
lyon.fr
Amanda M. Larracuente, PhD Assistant Professor Uni-
versity of Rochester Department of Biology 343 Hutchi-
son Hall Rochester, NY 14627
E-mail: alarracu@bio.Rochester.edu Oce: 585-273-
1693 http://blogs.rochester.edu/larracuente/ \Lar-
racuente, Amanda" <alarracu@UR.Rochester.edu >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
SexChromosomes
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce our symposium S52 \New
directions in sex chromosome evolution" at the joint
congress on Evolutionary Biology in Montpellier, France
(19th-22nd August 2018), with invited speaker Beatriz
Vicoso from IST Austria. Deadline for abstract submis-
sion is January 15th.
Symposium abstract: \Over a century of research on
sex chromosomes and sex determination evolution has
given us some of the most iconic models in evolution-
ary biology. While many major discoveries in this eld
have relied on the study of a few model organisms, the
recent explosion of new genomic technologies has en-
abled the expansion of the eld to a plethora of new
non-model organisms, revealing that they do not all t
predictions from canonical models. This increase in the
taxonomic breadth of data will undoubtedly produce
results requiring new theory for consolidation. However
when generating new theoretical models we must ac-
count for the ecology of the systems studied, an areathat has received little attention in the past. With this
new-found accessibility to data from non-model species,
and with all the new approaches at our disposal, now
is the perfect time to bring together researchers in the
eld to share ideas and approaches for the future. The
aim of this symposium is therefore to marry research on
both model and non-model organisms, using genomic
techniques, manipulative experiments or developmen-
tal approaches and to highlight studies at the interface
between ecology and evolution."
See you in Montpellier.
Jessica Abbott, Bengt Hansson, Daniel Jeries, Paul
Saunders.
{ Dr. Paul A. Saunders Department of Ecology and
Evolution University of Lausanne CH-1015 Lausanne
Switzerland
Oce: +41 21 692 5615 Mobile: +33 6 32 80 78 31
Paul Alan Saunders <paulalan.saunders@unil.ch >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
SocialEvol
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission to our
symposium \Social evolution and kin selection con-
fronting nature with theory" (S7) at the Evolution
2018 conference in Montpellier (France). Abstract sub-
mission is open until January, 15th 2018 at: http://
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Invited speaker : Susan Dudley
Symposium abstract:
Social organization represents one of the major transi-
tions in the evolution of life. Although social complexity
has evolved in dierent lineages, most research has fo-
cused on societies of sentient animals, but prokaryotes,
protists, fungi and plants often occur in structured pop-
ulations in which closely related neighbours interact.
The impact of such social interactions on trait evolution
has been studied independently using either quantita-
tive genetic (e.g. in plant and animal breeding) or kin
selection approaches (e.g. in evolutionary biology). The
former considers indirect genetic eects (IGEs), where
the phenotype of an individual depends on the genes
of its social partners, whereas the latter considers the
balance between individual tness costs and benets.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 21
This symposium aims to showcase a diversity of taxa
and contexts in which social interactions may play a key
role in evolution. It particularly aims to connect empir-
ical research with recent theoretical advances, seeking
unity between quantitative genetic and kin selection
approaches. We hope to foster discussion between theo-
reticians and empiricists, and to prompt theoreticians
to identify new avenues of synthesis.
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier!
Florence D ebarre, John Pannell, Nicolas Rode, Rub en
Torices Blanco
Nicolas Rode <nicolas.o.rode@gmail.com >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
TheoryOfFitnessLandscapes
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submissions for our
symposium on \The theory of tness landscapes: where
is this path taking us?" at the Evolution 2018 confer-
ence in Montpellier, France. This symposium aims to
gather a diverse group of scientists from dierent career
stages that is interested in discussing theoretical tness
landscapes and in identifying future steps to be taken
in this research area.
The deadline for abstract submission is January 15,
2018. Abstracts can be submitted using the following
link: http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts
Symposium summary: Fitness landscapes have devel-
oped from a mere illustration of the constraints and
complexity of evolution into a theoretical concept that
is ubiquitously studied across the natural sciences and
across multiple levels of biological organization. Recent
technological advances allow for the generation of ex-
perimental tness landscapes, potentially transforming
this previously theoretical eld into a statistical tool
for quantifying evolutionary processes and therefore
calling for an assessment of the current theory. This
symposium aims at connecting theoretical work in t-
ness landscapes from dierent elds, ranging from the
molecular to the interspecic level. Such an integration
will be essential for the successful evaluation and appli-
cation of tness landscape theory to experimental data
in the future. Through this symposium we intend to
(1) highlight the overlap between existing theoretical
concepts across levels of biological observation and how
we can connect them, (2) illustrate recent developmentsin tness landscape theory in the dierent elds, and (3)
determine future research directions to capture tness
landscape properties and categorize experimental tness
landscapes.
Invited speaker: Richard Goldstein Organizers: Ines
Fragata, Alexandre Blanckaert, Claudia Bank
Ines Fragata, PhD Evolutionary Dynamics Group Insti-
tuto Gulbenkian de Ciencia Oeiras, Portugal
In^ es Fragata <irfragata@gmail.com >
Montpellier Evol2018 Aug19-22
TreeComparison
We are organizing a symposium for the 2018 Joint
Congress on Evolutionary Biology that focuses on com-
parison of phylogenetic trees. Please see description and
details below, and consider submitting an abstract. The
deadline for abstract submission is in one month (15
January 2018).
Title: Comparing phylogenetic trees: why and how?
Organizers: Jeremy Brown, Sylvain Charlat, Damien de
Vienne, Robert Thomson
Invited speaker: C eline Scornavacca
Comparing phylogenetic trees provides means to de-
pict the evolutionary history of relationships among
dierent biological entities. While similar processes are
at play at dierent organizational levels, from genes
to host-symbiont associations, dierent methods have
been developed in dierent contexts. Some explicitly
incorporate evolutionary processes such as gene loss,
duplication and horizontal transfer, while others agnos-
tically describe the variation in trees. Combining these
approaches can provide deep insight into a wide variety
of biological questions, including the drivers of gene tree
variation, the prediction of protein-protein interactions,
and co-evolutionary histories of interacting organisms
and communities. This symposium will not only focus
on methods for describing and comparing phylogenetic
trees but will also allow discussing the many questions
that these methods can be used to address. The goal
of this discussion is to identify unifying themes in the
questions, concepts, methodological needs and solutions
used to understand and leverage phylogenetic variation.
Link for abstract submission: http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts Robert C.
Thomson Associate Professor Department of Biology22 EvolDir January 1, 2018
University of Hawaii Honolulu, HI 96822
808.956.6476 http://thomsonlab.org/ \thom-
sonr@hawaii.edu" <thomsonr@hawaii.edu >
Montpellier Evol Aug19-22
EvolutionOnTheEdge
Dear Colleagues -
We are pleased to invite members of the evolution com-
munity to submit abstracts for talks to our symposium
focusing on the interaction of demography, ecology and
evolution on range margins at the 2018 joint Evolution
meetings in Montpellier, France. Please see descrip-
tion and details below, and submit an abstract via the
following link:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-abstracts The
deadline for abstract submission is January 15, 2018.
We hope to attract a diverse group of exciting speakers,
and welcome submissions from scientists at all career
stages!
Title: Evolution on the edge: eco-evolutionary dynamics,
range expansion, and local adaptation.
Symposium summary: It has become increasingly clear
that evolutionary processes and population dynamics
are intertwined, and that they often occur on similar
time-scales. For instance, range expansions, contractions
or shifts can impose severe constraints on the evolution
and adaptive potential of edge populations, and recent
theoretical, experimental and empirical research has
shown that evolution can severely aect the outcome of
seemingly purely demographic processes such as range
expansions or range shifts. Understanding these conict-
ing forces is critical both to predicting how populations
will respond to changing environmental conditions, and
to predicting the fate of invasive species as they spread.
It is however still unclear which demographic processes
facilitate or hinder adaptive evolution, or what are the
exact factors determining the limits of species ranges.
Mating and reproductive systems, dispersal distances
and priority eects, and explicitly spatial processes such
as clonal spread and gene ow, are all expected to play
important roles in determining how space and selection
shape adaptation at the edge of species ranges. This
symposium will bring together empirical and theoretical
scientists investigating the interactions between demog-
raphy, ecology and evolution on range margins.Invited speakers: Michael Whitlock, University of
British Columbia Kimberly Gilbert, University of Bern
Organizers: Maria E. Orive, Stephan Peischl, Eric Petit,
and Laurent Excoer
Maria E. Orive morive@ku.edu
\morive@ku.edu" <morive@ku.edu >
Montpellier Evolution2018
Aug19-22 Phylogenomics
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to invite abstract submission for our sym-
posium on \New approaches to phylogenomics" (S31) at
the joint Evolution 2018 and ESEB conference 19th-22nd
August 2018 in Montpellier, France. Please submit your
abstracts at http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-
abstracts by the deadline on the 15th January 2018. The
invited speakers are Andrew Roger (Dalhousie Univer-
sity, Canada) and Tanja Stadler (ETH Zurich, Switzer-
land).
Abstract: Genomes maintain a chronicle of their own
history, from short scale evolution (e.g. cancer and
within-host viral evolution) to the last common ancestor
of all extant life. For some organisms, such as most
microbial lineages, it is practically the sole source of
evolutionary information available. For others, the inter-
dependence between genome evolutionary patterns and
life history traits (phenotype, ecology, epigenetic; ) doc-
umented using other techniques remains largely obscure.
Recent methodological developments in comparative ge-
nomics allow for gene tree / species tree reconciliation
and the identication of horizontal gene transfer, for
estimating the age, polymorphism and gene repertoire
of ancestral populations, for tracing back the history
of migrations, population splits and admixtures, and
for reconstructing mutational and selective pressures.
Understanding the link of these patterns to life history
traits, population dynamics and evolutionary success
remains a major question and methodological challenge.
This symposium is dedicated to new methodological
developments in integrating genomic data with other
sources of information, from fossils, to phenotypic, epi-
demiological, epigenetic and geographical data. Looking
forward seeing you in Montpellier!
Organisers: Vincent Daubin, Nicola De Maio, Laura
Eme, Carolin KosiolJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 23
Carolin Kosiol <ck202@st-andrews.ac.uk >
Montpellier Evolution2018 Outreach
Aug19-22
Are you interested in Evolution communication and
outreach?
Do you have an evolution outreach/communication
project you would like to share with evolutionary biolo-
gists?
Would you like share your experiences, results and re-
sources on evolution communication?
Join us at Evolution 2018 joint meeting in Mont-
pellier. Submit your communication to the S75
Symposium (Public communication? Don't shout...
SCREAM (Science Communication Research Em-
powers AMazing) outreach. Submit your ab-
stract here <https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/-
v2/url?u=3Dhttp-3A eseb2018.europa-
2Dinviteo.com callfor &d=DwMFaQ&c=-
imBPVzF25OnBgGmVOlcsiEgHoG1i6YHLR0Sj gZ4adc&r=
YrGA5qcbzTtWGsGwQJMaGA&m=34tOOGv5cn-
n-RFhPtkc8Svd3yn-tpGnoz9S 3nh8i0&s=-
YPR9R6LqOWIiiH2baEfKFsJn8xYJM-
Qv2nVvhsIPEXA&e= >until 15th January.
xanasapinto@gmail.com
Montpellier France Evol2018
Aug19-22 EvolutionaryEpidemiology
Dear EvolDir community,
We would like to inform you about our upcoming sym-
posium, \Evolutionary Epidemiology Across Multiple
Scales" (S17) at the 2018 Joint Congress on Evolution-
ary Biology in Montpellier, with Jamie Lloyd-Smith
as the keynote speaker. We are keen to have as much
diversity as possible among our speakers, so we would
be grateful if you could help spread the news about
our symposium among your colleagues, from any career
stage, that you think would be interested. Our aim is
to cover a wide range of topics at the interface between
epidemiology and disease evolution.The deadline for abstract submission is January 15th
of 2018. For further information please see http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposia Best wishes,
Chris Illingworth, Ryosuke Iritani, Katrina Lythgoe,
Jayna Raghwani, Senay Yitbarek
\jayna.raghwani@zoo.ox.ac.uk"
<jayna.raghwani@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-20
here is the link: http://asianevo.org/programme/-
program schedule.html Aibin Zhan, PhD Professor and
Vice Director Key laboratory of Environmental Biotech-
nology Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences
Chinese Academy of Sciences
Professor College of Resources and Environment Uni-
versity of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Associate Editor Diversity and Distributions (http://-
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1472-
4642) Biological Invasions (http://www.springer.com/-
life+sciences/ecology/journal/10530) Aquatic Invasions
(http://www.aquaticinvasions.net/) Aquatic Ecosystem
Health & Management (http://www.tandfonline.com/-
toc/uaem20/current)
Editor World Register of Introduced Marine Species
(WRIMS) (http://www.marinespecies.org/introduced/)
18 Shuangqing Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100085,
China E-mail: zhanaibin@hotmail.com (preferred);
azhan@rcees.ac.cn Tel & Fax: (+86)10-6284-9882 (oce)
https://sites.google.com/site/zhanaibin/ ~A^A1
2^Ao^A^A o
<azhan@rcees.ac.cn >
Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-20
HumanGenomics
First AsianEvo Conference in Shenzhen, China, April
18-20, 2017.
http://www.asianevo.org We are pleased to announce
the call for abstracts for a symposium on
The Human Genomic History of Southeast Asia
Invited speakers:24 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Mark Stoneking, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Germany Murray Cox, Massey Univer-
sity, New Zealand Maude Phipps, Monash University,
Malaysia Wibhu Kutanan, Khoen Kaen University, Thai-
land Nguyen Thuy Dong, Institute for Genome Research,
Vietnam
Southeast Asia is a pivotal region for understanding the
dispersals and history of modern humans, and yet has
been relatively neglected in terms of genomic studies.
Standing at the crossroads of East Asia and Oceania,
Southeast Asia witnessed one of the earliest dispersals of
modern humans from Africa that passed through Sunda
and reached Sahul at least 50,000 years ago. Other
major expansions, associated with the spread of vari-
ous language families 'V in particular, the Austronesian
expansion, which spread Austronesian languages from
Taiwan through the Philippines, Indonesia, Near and Re-
mote Oceania, and even Madagascar 'V occurred within
the past 5,000 years or so. However, major questions
remain concerning the origins, pathways, and overall
impact of these and other possible dispersals. Moreover,
dierent groups of archaic humans lived in the area
and thus may have interacted with modern humans,
including Homo erectus (surviving in Indonesia until
at least 100,000 years ago) and H. oriensis (surviving
in Flores until at least 50,000 years ago). In addition,
modern populations in Southeast Asia and Oceania har-
bor the highest amount of Denisovan-related ancestry,
even though fossils attributed to Denisovans are so far
only known from Denisova Cave, in the Altai region of
southern Siberia. The aim of this symposium is to bring
together researchers using cutting-edge genomic data
and analytical methods to investigate various aspects
of the prehistory of Southeast Asia.
Deadline for abstracts is December 15th
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/abstract.html
Travel awards are available for 5 students and 5 postdocs
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/-
student awards.html Symposium organizers
Mark Stoneking (stoneking@eva.mpg.de)
Murray Cox (M.P.Cox@massey.ac.nz)
{
Prof. Dr. Mark Stoneking Dept. of Evolutionary Genet-
ics Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropol-
ogy Deutscher Platz 6 D04103 Leipzig Germany Phone:
+49-341-3550-502 Secretary: +49-341-3550-504 FAX:
+49-341-3550-555
Now available: Introduction to Molecular Anthropology
(Wiley 2017)
Mark Stoneking <stonekg@eva.mpg.de >Shenzhen Evolution Apr18-29
Dispersal
We are pleased to announce the call for abstracts for a
symposium on
Evolution of dispersal: from mathematical modeling to
eld studies
Invited speakers:
Yasuo Ihara, University of Tokyo, Japan
Shoji Naoe, Forestry and Forest Products Research In-
stitute, Japan
Xiang-Yi Li, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Dispersal is a crucial and ubiquitous phenomenon that
spreads through the entire tree of life. The evolution of
dispersal directly aects the balance between local adap-
tation and gene ow, and thus has great inuence on
the spatial and temporal distributions of species. How
and why species disperse are not only questions out of
pure academic curiosity'Xthey also hold the keys to the
solutions of many pressing problems in the world, such
as the loss of biodiversity and natural resources due
to climate change, the introduction of invasive species,
and the spread of infectious diseases. Empowered with
the latest progress in both empirical and theoretical
methods (e.g. tracking the origin of seeds with the ra-
tio of stable oxygen isotopes, as well as high eciency
individual-based computer simulations), we are now
granted the opportunity to look deep into the proxi-
mate and ultimate drivers of dispersal, unraveling its
past and making predictions of the future, handling the
complexity that has never been achieved before.
Among our invited speakers, Yasuo Ihara will present
mathematical models of the earliest cross-oceanic mi-
grations by Paleolithic humans (e.g. from Indonesia to
Australia and from Taiwan to Japanese archipelago).
Xiang-Yi Li will present individual-based simulations
that disentangle the eect of kin competition on sex-
biased dispersal commonly observed in natural popu-
lations. Shoji Naoe will present empirical works on
seed dispersal by frugivorous mammals and birds in re-
spond to climate change, as well as its impact on forest
recruitment in a changing world.
Deadline for abstracts is January 20, 2018
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/abstract.htmlJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 25
Travel awards are available for 5 students and 5 postdocs
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/-
student awards.html Conference homepage: http://-
www.asianevo.org/index.html Symposium organizer
Xiang-Yi Li (xiangyi.li@ieu.uzh.ch)
{
Dr. Xiang-Yi Li Department of Evolutionary Biology
and Environmental Studies University of Zurich Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich Switzerland
Xiangyi Li <xiangyi.li@ieu.uzh.ch >
Shenzhen FitnessLandscapes
Apr18-20
1st AsianEvo Conference in Shenzhen, China, April
18-20, 2017.
http://www.asianevo.org We are pleased to announce
the call for abstract for a symposium on
Fitness landscapes, experimental evolution, and evolu-
tionary forecasting
Invited speakers:
Kavita Jain, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced
Scientic Research, Bangalore, India
Arjan de Visser, Wageningen University, Netherlands
Ryan Calsbeek, Dartmouth College, US
The inference of past evolutionary processes from geno-
type and phenotype data has been one of the corner-
stones of modern evolutionary biology in the last decades.
The success of these methods has suggested that it could
be possible to forecast future evolutionary patterns. De-
velopments in this direction are crucial for many applica-
tions, including anti-microbial resistance and evolution
of cancer. This endeavour requires a solid and rigorous
ground where theoretical predictions on the dynamics
and repeatability of evolution could be eectively devel-
oped and tested. The key framework for these studies -
the concept of the \tness landscape" - was proposed
by Sewall Wright in 1932. This theoretical concept has
been debated for the last century, but it has become a
very active research eld only in the last decade, with
the advent of genomics and next-generation sequencing
and the recent developments in experimental evolution
and genome editing. It is now possible to test the t-
ness eects of specic sets of mutations in controlledenvironment, to infer features of the tness landscape,
as well as observing evolutionary trajectories of spe-
cic mutants. These approaches can be combined with
population genetics to forecast the short-term evolution
of natural and experimental populations. The aim of
this symposium will be a synthesis of the current ap-
proaches to tness landscapes from four complementary
points of view - the theory of tness landscapes, pop-
ulation genetics, and evolution on tness landscapes
(with Kavita Jain), eco-evolutionary interactions and
dynamics (with Ryan Calsbeek), and empirical results
from experimental evolution (with Arjan de Visser) - as
well as a place to discuss the goals and the potential
developments in the eld. This is a timely symposium to
explore several exciting topics, including quantication
and visualisation of tness landscapes, eco-evolutionary
dynamics, cross-organismal landscape comparisons, and
evolutionary prediction/forecasting.
Deadline for abstracts is December 15th
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/abstract.html
Travel awards are available for 5 students and 5 postdocs
http://www.asianevo.org/programme/-
student awards.html Symposium organizers
Prof. Ping Ao, Shanghai University, China
Dr. Bjrn ~Astman, UC Los Angeles, US
BJORN OSTMAN <ostman@ucla.edu >
StAndrews MASAMB Mar19-20
Mathematical and Statistical Aspects of Molecular Bi-
ology
28th annual MASAMB workshop
University of St Andrews
19/20 March 2018
Call for Abstracts
Abstracts for Talks and Posters are invited for the 28th
annual MASAMB workshop which will come the rst
time to the continent and will be held at the University
of St Andrews, Scotland from the 19 ^th to the 20 ^th
March 2018.
Bioinformatics and statistical genetics, twin themes of
the long-running series of annual MASAMB meetings,
have gained huge impetus from large-scale genome se-
quencing projects and development of high-throughput
biological assay systems, including gene-expression mi-26 EvolDir January 1, 2018
croarrays, proteomic, metabolomic and single-cell ge-
nomics technologies. These immense data resources,
and the underlying complexities of molecular and cell
biology, provide exciting research opportunities for nu-
merate scientists.
With typically around 80-120 participants from mathe-
matics, statistics, computer science, bioinformatics, biol-
ogy and related elds, the MASAMB meetings provide
an intimate setting for exchanging ideas in method-
ological and applied research. Research students and
scientists newly entering the eld of genomic research
are particularly welcome and encouraged to submit ab-
stracts. Details of previous meetings are available at
the MASAMB archive.
For more information, submission of abstracts and reg-
istration please go to:
https://synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/masamb/ Likely top-
ics for sessions this year:
Next Generation Sequencing
Population Genetics
Phylogeny and Comparative Genomics
Personalised Medicine
Systems Biology
Important dates:
Registration opens: 15th December 2017
Abstract submission: 1st February 2018
Registration closes: 12th February 2018
Conference: 19th-20th March 2018
Carolin Kosiol Centre for Biological Diversity Univer-
sity of St Andrews ck202@st-andrews.ac.uk https://-
synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/genomemoleculardating/ Car-
olin Kosiol <ck202@st-andrews.ac.uk >
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen
Mar23-25
DEADLINE DEC 31 for FREE STUDENT REGIS-
TRATION
The AGA is oering multiple free registration slots to
graduation students who submit an abstract for the
American Genetic Association Symposium, \Evolution-
ary Quantitative Genetics in the Wild".
For all others, early registration by Dec 31st is $150 andincludes receptions, meals, and complimentary member-
ship in the American Genetic Association with subscrip-
tion to Journal of Heredity.
AGA symposia are small, friendly gatherings, and
provide wonderful opportunities for students and re-
searchers to engage with one another and share their
science. This spring's meeting will take place March 23-
25, 2018, at the University of Toronto, Canada. It will
focus on quantitative genetics of tness-related traits in
an evolutionary context across diverse species.
We will open with a reception on Friday night, and our
Key Distinguished Lecturer, Loeske Kruuk, will lead
o a full day of talks on Saturday. A poster session
reception is planned for Saturday night. Finally, a half
day of talks will be presented on Sunday.
Registration is open! For all details, visit http://-
www.theaga.org . Best wishes,
Anne Bronikowski, 2017 AGA President John Stinch-
combe, Local Host and Co-Organizer
Speakers:
Wilhemine Key Distinguished Lecture by Loeske Kruuk
(Australian Natl U.) ~\Quantitative Genetics of Fitness
in Wild Populations"
David Coltman, U. Alberta ~\Architecture of quanti-
tative traits in bighorn sheep"
Je Conner, Mich State ~\Mechanisms of rapid adap-
tation"
Lynda Delph, Indiana U. ~\Sex-specic selection drives
sexual dimorphism in correlated characters"
Ned Dochtermann, U. N Dakota ~\Is behavior funda-
mentally dierent from other types of traits: behavioral
heritabilities and genetic correlations in crickets"
Kathleen Donohue, Duke U. ~\Regulating life-cycle phe-
nology through developmental arrest: Seed dormancy
and plant life cycles in seasonal environments"
Fred Janzen, Iowa State ~\Evolutionary quantitative
genetics of sex determination in freshwater turtles"
Adam Jones, U. Idaho ~\Epistasis in the wild"
Emily Josephs, UCDavis & Mich State ~\Detecting
polygenic adaptation in domesticated and wild plants"
Andrew McAdam, U. Guelph ~\Maternal eects in
North American red squirrels"
Joel McGlothlin, Virgina Tech ~\Quantitative genetics
of sexual dimorphism in brown anoles"
Mike Morrissey, U. St Andrews ~\Development andJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 27
non-additive genetic variation"
Leonie Moyle, Indiana U. ~\Intraspecic polymorphism
for quantitative traits and interspecic isolating barriers
in wild tomato"
Julia Saltz, Rice U. ~\Gene-environment correlation:
implications for evolutionary quantitative genetics"
Jon Slate, U. Sheed ~\Genomic prediction in a wild
mammal"
John Stinchcombe, U. Toronto ~\Evolutionary genetics
in wild and invasive plants"
Cynthia Weinig, U. Wyoming ~\Genetic underpinnings
of plant-microbe interactions and their role in adapta-
tion"
Jason Wolf, U. Bath ~\A genomic perspective on mul-
tivariate evolution"
Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >
Toronto AGA WildQuantGen
Mar23-25 StdReg
*Several spots remain for FREE STUDENT REGIS-
TRATION*
The AGA is oering multiple free registration slots to
graduation students who submit an abstract for the
American Genetic Association Symposium, \Evolution-
ary Quantitative Genetics in the Wild".
For all others, early registration includes receptions,
meals, and complimentary membership in the Ameri-
can Genetic Association with subscription to Journal of
Heredity.
AGA symposia are small, friendly gatherings, and
provide wonderful opportunities for students and re-
searchers to engage with one another and share their
science. This spring's meeting will take place March 23-
25, 2018, at the University of Toronto, Canada. It will
focus on quantitative genetics of tness-related traits in
an evolutionary context across diverse species.
We will open with a reception on Friday night, and our
Key Distinguished Lecturer, Loeske Kruuk, will lead
o a full day of talks on Saturday. A poster session
reception is planned for Saturday night. Finally, a half
day of talks will be presented on Sunday.
Registration is open! For all details, visit http://-
www.theaga.org . Best wishes,Anne Bronikowski, 2017 AGA President John Stinch-
combe, Local Host and Co-Organizer
Speakers:
Wilhemine Key Distinguished Lecture by Loeske Kruuk
(Australian Natl U.) ~\Quantitative Genetics of Fitness
in Wild Populations"
David Coltman, U. Alberta ~\Architecture of quanti-
tative traits in bighorn sheep"
Je Conner, Mich State ~\Mechanisms of rapid adap-
tation"
Lynda Delph, Indiana U. ~\Sex-specic selection drives
sexual dimorphism in correlated characters"
Ned Dochtermann, U. N Dakota ~\Is behavior funda-
mentally dierent from other types of traits: behavioral
heritabilities and genetic correlations in crickets"
Kathleen Donohue, Duke U. ~\Regulating life-cycle phe-
nology through developmental arrest: Seed dormancy
and plant life cycles in seasonal environments"
Fred Janzen, Iowa State ~\Evolutionary quantitative
genetics of sex determination in freshwater turtles"
Adam Jones, U. Idaho ~\Epistasis in the wild"
Emily Josephs, UCDavis & Mich State ~\Detecting
polygenic adaptation in domesticated and wild plants"
Andrew McAdam, U. Guelph ~\Maternal eects in
North American red squirrels"
Joel McGlothlin, Virgina Tech ~\Quantitative genetics
of sexual dimorphism in brown anoles"
Mike Morrissey, U. St Andrews ~\Development and
non-additive genetic variation"
Leonie Moyle, Indiana U. ~\Intraspecic polymorphism
for quantitative traits and interspecic isolating barriers
in wild tomato"
Julia Saltz, Rice U. ~\Gene-environment correlation:
implications for evolutionary quantitative genetics"
Jon Slate, U. Sheed ~\Recent natural selection causes
adaptive evolution of an avian polygenic trait"
John Stinchcombe, U. Toronto ~\Evolutionary genetics
in wild and invasive plants"
Cynthia Weinig, U. Wyoming ~\Genetic underpinnings
of plant-microbe interactions and their role in adapta-
tion"
Jason Wolf, U. Bath ~\A genomic perspective on mul-
tivariate evolution"
abroniko@iastate.edu28 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Toronto ConservationBiol Jul21-26
On behalf of the Society for Conservation Biology North
America and the Toronto Organizing Committee, I am
excited to announce and extend an invitation to the 4th
biannual North American Congress for Conservation
Biology (NACCB), taking place July 21st 'V 26th, 2018
at the Westin Harbour Castle Convention Center in
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
This event brings together conservation professionals
and students working across a wide variety of disciplines
and institutions for discussion, innovation, and oppor-
tunities in science. The goal of NACCB is to provide
a forum for presenting and discussing new research,
developments, and strategies that will inform policy
changes and conservation practices to address today' ^As
conservation challenges. Most importantly, these confer-
ences connect our regional community of conservation
professionals and serve as the major networking outlet
for anyone interested in conservation in North America.
NACCB attendees are scientists, students, managers,
decision-makers, writers, educators, and other conser-
vation professionals from throughout the world. Many
come to present, learn, discuss and enjoy the incredible
networking opportunities of this event.
The 2018 congress theme is Conservation Science, Policy,
and Practice: Connecting the Urban to the Wild. There
are various ways to participate in the 2018 congress, and
we invite faculty, sta, researchers, and students in your
department to attend and participate in the congress.
Upcoming opportunities -
NACCB' ^As Call for Abstracts: Open December 8th
2017 An invitation to submit abstracts for contributed
talks, speed talks, and posters
NACCB' ^As Call for Sponsors, Exhibitors, Advertise-
ments: ongoing Please see our conference prospectus for
details
Student Competitions/Opportunities: Students may
submit an extended abstract for consideration in the
Student Presentation Awards, and also apply for a travel
grant provided by SCB North America. Details will be
announced at a later date.
The content of NACCB is interdisciplinary in scope,
and we welcome proposals and abstracts of many types,
including and not limited to topics in indigenous-led
conservation, education, policy, management, and di-versity in conservation leadership. Please share this
announcement with your colleagues and students.
We hope you will join us!
Sincerely,
Christopher Blackford
Society for Conservation Biology Toronto Chapter
Website: http://scbtoronto.com/ Email:
scbtoronto@gmail.com
Biology Undergraduate <biology@mcmaster.ca >
UCambridge EvolutionaryGenetics
Mar20
Dear Colleague,
The annual Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Sym-
posium (EGGS) will take place on Tuesday 20th March
2018 at the University of Cambridge. The aim of this
meeting is to bring together participants from a range
of backgrounds, with a particular focus on genomics and
evolutionary biology. EGGS 2018 will feature a keynote
from Katie Peichel (University of Bern)
Registration is now open. Please register at
https://goo.gl/wuW5iq Abstract submission is now
open and the deadline is 22/01/2018. If you would
be interested in presenting a talk please submit your
abstract via this link:
https://goo.gl/K6RmSF With best wishes,
The organising committee.
\ar885@cam.ac.uk" <ar885@cam.ac.uk >
UMichigan EarlyCareerScientists
Mar9-11
CALL FOR NOMINATIONS 14th ANNUAL EARLY
CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
Ecology and Evolution of Color
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites nominations of
outstanding scientists early in their careers to partici-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 29
pate in an exciting international symposium about the
ecology and evolution of color. The symposium events
will take place from 9-11th of March 2018, in Ann Arbor,
Michigan.
Eight early career scientists, alongside two keynote
speakers, will be selected to present their work and
to participate in discussions. We welcome nominations
of early career scientists who are studying topics related
to the ecology and evolution color. This symposium will
highlight the work of up-and-coming scientists whose
research foci span a breadth of subelds and levels of
organization, including but not limited to: function
of color, visual ecology, micro- and macroevolutionary
mechanisms mediating pigmentation diversity, pollina-
tion biology, and mechanisms of color production. We
champion diversity and encourage the nomination of
members of groups underrepresented in science.
Early career scientists are considered senior graduate
students (who stand to receive their Ph.D. within one
year), postdoctoral researchers, and rst- or second-
year faculty. A colleague or advisor must provide the
nomination.
The nomination consists of a brief letter of recommenda-
tion addressing the nominee's scientic promise and abil-
ity to give a compelling talk, the nominee's curriculum
vitae, and a brief abstract of the proposed presentation
(<200 words, written by the nominee). Nominations
may be sent electronically (in one pdf le, please) to eeb-
ecss-nomination@umich.edu using the nominee's name
as the subject line (last name rst). Information about
Early Career Scientist Symposia held in past years can
be found at http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/ . Topic
description: Coloration is fundamental to the ecology
and evolution of organisms and has a valuable research
legacy across plants and animals. Recent innovations
in both technology and investigative approaches have
propelled coloration to an exciting emerging frontier in
integrative biology. We seek to invite scientists study-
ing color from diverse perspectives across spatial and
temporal scales, potentially including (but not limited
to): genetics of color production and pigmentation, de-
velopment and plasticity of color phenotypes, visual
ecology, color polymorphism, ower ecology and evo-
lution, plant-pollinator interactions, aposematism and
crypsis, visual mimicry, signalling theory and behavioral
ecology, symbiosis and its role in coloration, sexual se-
lection, trait evolution, speciation, and diversication.
We envision 1-2 synthetic keynotes that explore the cur-
rent state of coloration research and suggest exciting
future research directions. The causes and consequences
of color diversity provide a compelling and interdisci-
plinary topic spanning diverse research interests across
our department.Review of nominations will begin on Jan 7, 2018.
Selected participants will be contacted in mid January
and will have all expenses covered (registration, travel,
and accommodation). An ocial announcement of the
slate of speakers will be issued soon thereafter.
For more information, contact Carol Solomon at carol-
lyn@umich.edu
The 2018 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientic
committee includes:
Leslie Decker Jon Massey Talia Moore Alison Davis
Rabosky Carol Solomon Liz Tibbetts Oscar Vargas Lisa
Walsh
Oscar Mauricio Vargas Hernandez
<oscarvargash@gmail.com >
Ventura California Speciation
Mar10-15 2019
We are pleased to announce SPECIATION 2019, the
third Gordon Research Conference (GRC) dedicated
exclusively to speciation research. The conference will
be held at the Four Points Sheraton / Holiday Inn
Express, Ventura, CA during the week of March 10 -
15, 2019, co-chaired by Rebecca Safran (University of
Colorado, USA) and Katie Peichel (University of Bern,
Switzerland).
The conference will be directly preceded by a two-day
Gordon Research Seminar (GRS) on March 9 - 10, co-
chaired by Martin Garlovsky (Sheeld University, UK)
and Sheela Turbek (University of Colorado, USA), that
oers opportunities for early-career scientists to get in-
volved at the forefronts of modern speciation research.
Invited presentations and discussion sessions at both
the GRC and GRS will cover a broad array of timely
topics in speciation research.
Registration for both conferences will open during the
summer, 2018.
Please send questions to Rebecca.Safran@colorado.edu
Sincerely
Rebecca Safran, Katie Peichel, Martin Gorlovsky, Sheela
Turbek
Dr. Rebecca Jo Safran
Associate Professor Department of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology N317 Ramaley Hall University of Colorado30 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Boulder Colorado 80309 USA
email: rebecca.safran@colorado.edu
phone: 303.735.1495
Research Lab: www.safran-lab.com Research Blog:
http://www.barnswallowproject.com Climate Change:
www.insidethegreenhouse.org NO tolerance for hate
and social injustice
Rebecca J Safran <rebecca.safran@colorado.edu >
Warsaw PolishSocietyForHumanAn-
dEvolutionStudies
Sep24-26
Polish Society for Human and Evolution Studies (PT-
NCE) has a great pleasure to invite you to its annual
international conference, which will be held in Warsaw
(Poland) between the 24th and 26th of September 2018.
Polish Society for Human and Evolution Studies aims at
associating scientists and students of various scientic
disciplines interested in the application of the evolution-
ary perspective in the following research areas: biology,
ecology, human behaviour and culture studies. By cre-
ating an idiosyncratic evolutionary platform we intend
to break the barriers between traditional divisions in
human studies.
We are pleased to announce our distinguished ple-
nary speakers for the 2018 conference: Russell Gray,
Max Planck, Jena (evolutionary linguistics), Johannes
Krause, Max Planck, Jena (archaeogenetics), Jan
Havlicek, Charles University, Prague (social perception)
and Grazyna Jasienska, Jagiellonian University, Cracow
(reproductive ecology).
The PTNCE 2018 conference website is already avail-
able to you at www.ptnce2018.pl. On the website you
will nd further information about the speakers and
the conference. Gradually we will be publishing more
information about registration dates and fees (which
should be close to the 2017 fees, ie. very aordable), as
well as associated events and travel tips. Therefore, we
encourage you to keep checking the website updates as
well as to look out for the upcoming circulars.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to
contact the organizing team at ptnce2018@gmail.com.
We will be very grateful for forwarding this message
and/or spreading information about the conferenceamong all potentially interested people, research groups
and institutions.
Kind regards,
Martyna Molak, PhD Polish Academy of Sciences Head
of the 2018 PTNCE Warsaw conference organising com-
mittee
&
Prof. Bogus ^A3aw Paw ^A3owski University of Wroc ^A3aw
President of the Polish Society for Human and Evolution
Studies
martyna.molak@gmail.com
WashingtonDC SexRatioVariation
May22-25
Dear colleagues,
My co-organizer Martin Thiel and I would like to invite
you to present your research at the symposium \Too few,
too many, or just right: Causes and Consequences of Sex
Ratio Variation", part of the upcoming International
Crustacean Congress IX in Washington DC from May
22-25th 2018. The aim of this symposium is to highlight
the importance of sex ratios for evolutionary and pop-
ulation biology. Participants of this symposium might
present examples of crustacean species or populations
with variable or biased sex ratios, discuss natural and
anthropogenic causes of sex ratio variation, and review
possible eects on mating interactions, sexual selection
and population biology. Scientists at all steps of their
career are encouraged to participate!
If you are interested in participating in this symposium,
please contact Martin Thiel (thiel@ucn.cl) or Christine
Ewers-Saucedo (ewers.christine@gmail.com).
The deadline for abstract submissions is *March 1st
2018.* More information on the conference can be found
here: http://www.birenheide.com/ICC2018/index.php
*Symposium details*:
Title: Too few, too many, or just right: Causes and
Consequences of Sex Ratio Variation
Co-Coordinators: Christine Ewers-Saucedo, Zoolo-
gisches Museum der Christian-Albrechts Universit at,
Kiel, Germany, ewers.christine@gmail.com Martin Thiel,
Universidad Cat olica del Norte, Coquimbo, Chile,
thiel@ucn.clJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 31
Symposium summary: While conservation biology con-
centrates on population size as a measure of extinction
risk, sex ratio, especially the operational sex ratio, can
also have great impact on a populations' performance.
Diverging sex ratios may reduce the eective number of
breeding individuals and the eective population size,
which can make populations more susceptible to ex-
tinction. Moreover, changes in sex ratios aect the
competition for access to mates, thereby aecting repro-
ductive behavior, sexual selection and mating systems.
While sex ratios vary naturally in some populations,
others are biased by human action. Natural causes
of sex ratio variation include sex-specic survival (e.g.
predation), local mate competition, and feminizing par-
asites. Anthropogenic causes include masculinizing and
feminizing contaminants and sex-biased sheries. Shifts
in climate and temperature (whether along natural gra-
dients or human-caused) can also impact sex ratios. Sex
ratio variation and bias has the potential to play an
important role in many crustacean taxa, which therefore
provide opportunities to compare and contrast causes
and consequences of operational sex ratios using ex-
perimental, observational and comparative approaches.
Participants of this symposium will present examples
of species and populations with variable or biased sex
ratios, discuss natural and anthropogenic causes of sex
ratio variation, and review possible eects on reproduc-
tive biology, mating interactions, sexual selection and
population biology.
We plan to publish a special issue in Invertebrate Re-
production and Development.
We applied for funding to oset some of the meeting
costs for our symposium speakers.
We are looking forward to seeing you in DC, Martin
Thiel and Christine Ewers-Saucedo
Christine Ewers <ewers.christine@gmail.com >
Yosemite Symbiosis May4-6
Dear Colleagues,
The Eigth annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will
take place on May 4th-6th, 2018 at the Sierra NevadaResearch Institute, Yosemite National Park. This has
become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis re-
searchers. We hope to continue to attract a diverse
group in 2018!
Keynote speaker 2018: Dr. Tadashi Fukami from Stan-
ford University!
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the
broad groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis and
microbiome research. Yosemite serves as an ideal site as
it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be our 7th
annual meeting and we have been consistently attracting
scientists from all over the country and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in the mi-
crobiome, cooperation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In
the past we have covered a range of symbiosis topics
from ecology and evolution to molecular mechanisms in
dierent model and non-model systems. We would like
to make room for a diverse group of people so we will ini-
tially accept up to 3 lab members per group (including
the PI) on a rst come rst served basis.
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 5-
6, 2018, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 4th to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting.
Past attendees and talks can be found here: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php Abstract and
early bird registration information will be announced
soon!
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room. <http://-
snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis >
*Joel L. Sachs* *Associate Professor & Vice Chair*
Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology University of
California, Riverside
*Mailing Address:* Sachs Lab - UC Riverside 3401
Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951) 827-4286
www.sachslab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/-
people/faculty/Sachs.html \joels@ucr.edu"
<joels@ucr.edu >32 EvolDir January 1, 2018
GradStudentPositions
AcademiaSinica Taiwan AntEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
AuburnU 3 EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
AustinPeayStateU PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
BielefeldU FunctionalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
BielefeldU NicheSpecialization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
CityUNewYork EvolutionLysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
ClarksonU ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
ColoradoStateU BeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Copenhagen 3 Evogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
DurhamU EcologyEvolutionGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
DurhamU EvolutionaryAnthropology . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
DurhamU FishClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
GeorgiaSouthernU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
IGB Berlin FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ImperialC London AvianIndelity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ImperialC London MosquitoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
IowaStateU EyeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
IST Austria EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Jena Germany EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Jena Germany EvolEcolBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
LeidenU ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
LMU Munich Master Geobiology Paleobiology . . . . .48
MasseyU Auckland NZ MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . 49
MasseyU PolyploidyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
NHM Denmark DNABarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
NIOO Wageningen BirdBehaviourEpigenetics . . . . . 50
NIOO Wageningen VirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
NIOZ Netherlands EvolutionMarineCommunities . . 52
NorthDakotaStateU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
RoyalHolloway ULondon EvolutionGenomicArchitec-
ture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
SouthDakotaStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . .54
StAndrews EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
StirlingU WildMandrillsSexDierences . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
StockholmNHM Mammoth Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
StockholmU BrainEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
StockholmU ColourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .58
SU NHM Stockholm ArcticBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . .59TexasAMU ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
TexasAM VeterinaryMed ComparativeEvolGenomics 60
TrentU Canada BlackBearGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UAkron SexChromEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UAlabama BeeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UBarcelona EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
UBath ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UBern SpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
UBielefeld BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UCalifornia Merced InsectMicrobeSymbioses . . . . . . 65
UCambridge NeuroEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
UDenver EvolutionAnimalBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
UGlasgow CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UGothenburg 2 PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UGreifswald BiologicalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UHamburg SystematicsGastropods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UIllinois FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UIowa EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ULaval SticklebackEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 71
ULaval SticklebackGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
ULeicester CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
ULeicester GibbonCopyNumberVariation . . . . . . . . . .73
UMainz AntEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UMuenster DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
UMuenster EvolutionaryCapacitance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UMunich BorreliaPathogenAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UOtago NZ 3 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
UOxford 2PhD EvolutionHumanBehaviour . . . . . . . . 78
UppsalaU WolfPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
USheeld 2PhD EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 79
USheeld ButteryColourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
USouthernMississippi MarineInvertFitness . . . . . . . . .80
USussex BehaviourConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
UVermont QuEST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UVienna PlantPhylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UWestAlabama BaikalSculpinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UWisconsin Madison InvasiveInsectAdaptation . . . . 84January 1, 2018 EvolDir 33
AcademiaSinica Taiwan
AntEvolution
One or two PhD positions are available to study re
ant social biology or nematode sex ratios in the labora-
tory of John Wang at the Biodiversity Research Center,
Academia Sinica (Taipei, Taiwan) beginning in the Fall
of 2018.
Our lab uses the invasive pest species, the red imported
re ant, to study social biology and sex determination
and their evolution. We are also investigating the evolu-
tion and genetics of skewed sex ratios in Caenorhabditis
nematode. We use multiple techniques to address these
questions including behavioral observations, bioinfor-
matics, genomics, genetics, genome manipulation, and
molecular biology.
Funding - The PhD fellowship includes a monthly
stipend of NT $34,000 ( ~1,133 USD) for up to 3 years
through the TIGP (Taiwan International Graduate Pro-
gram), a joint graduate program between Academia
Sinica and National Taiwan Normal University.
Eligibility - The position is open to all applicants that
meet TIGP admission criteria, but preference will be
given to students with a master degree or prior ex-
perience in insect behavior, bioinformatics, molecular
biology, population genetics, or genetics. Criteria and
material used to evaluate the applicant's qualications
for the admission: (http://tigp-bp.biodiv.tw/)
Interested students should prepare (1) a CV, (2) a list
of prior experience, (3) three references (contact info
& emails), and (4) a one-page statement of research
interests in one PDF le, and email the le to John
Wang (johnwang@gate.sinica.edu.tw) with the subject
line \TIGP application".
Additionally, a formal online application for admis-
sion must be submitted to TIGP-Biodiversity (http://-
db1x.sinica.edu.tw/tigp/index.php). Deadline for early
admissions is January 15th. For bioinformatically in-
clined students, application can be made through TIGP-
Bioinformatics (http://tigpbp.iis.sinica.edu.tw/tigpbio/-
).
Academia Sinica is located in Taipei, Taiwan. Taipei is
a vibrant, global city, rich in cultural and near to both
oceans and mountains for both research and pleasure.
If you have any questions please feel free to contact me,
John.
John's faculty website: (http://biodiv.sinica.edu.tw/-en/index.php?pi=3D157)
Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica (http:/-
/biodiv.sinica.edu.tw/en/)
John Wang Taipei, Taiwan
johnwang@gate.sinica.edu.tw
AuburnU 3 EvolutionaryEcol
Title: 2 Funded PhD positions in Evolutionary Ecology
at Auburn
2 Funded PhD positions beginning Fall 2018
The Wolak Research Group at Auburn University is
looking for PhD students that are motivated to de-
velop projects addressing key outstanding questions in
evolutionary ecology. The group studies the link be-
tween evolutionary change and ecological processes act-
ing upon variability among individuals in survival and
reproduction and hence population growth, persistence,
and structure. We measure natural and sexual selection,
the quantitative genetic basis to trait variation, and pop-
ulation demography to quantitatively predict ecological
and evolutionary dynamics. We also develop statistical
methods and software. Two potential projects include:
**Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics:** The student
will develop and test theory for the evolution of sexual
size dimorphism using a combination of simulation, ar-
ticial selection, experimental evolution, and/or large
scale mating designs with laboratory populations of seed
beetles (*Callosobruchus maculatus*). There will be op-
portunities to collaborate with a postdoctoral research
associate developing testable theory on a complementary
project.
**Evolutionary Ecology in Natural Populations:** This
student will conduct eld work, analyses, and/or simu-
lations to extend the conceptual framework and state
of empirical knowlege for the interplay between mat-
ing system, population dynamics, and phenotypic selec-
tion. We will use a population of diamondback terrap-
ins (*Malaclemys terrapin*) to characterize mating and
reproductive biology, measure key demographic param-
eters, and identify the form and magnitude of selection
acting in this population.
I encourage all interested students to contact me, by
sending a CV and *brief* description of research in-
terests to matthew.wolak@auburn.edu. PhD students
are expected to develop their own research questions34 EvolDir January 1, 2018
within the broader contexts outlined above. Students
will also be expected to aggressively pursue fellowship
and research funding opportunities and publish their
research in high quality journals.
**Deadline** for admission to the program with guar-
anteed support (10 semesters of Graduate Teaching
Assistantships, GTAs) is **February 1st**. Please
**contact me immediately** to discuss the opportu-
nity for an **on-campus visit**. Summer Graduate
Research Assistantships with Dr. Wolak will be avail-
able for top applicants, otherwise students have the op-
portunity to compete for a number of summer GTAs.|
More information is available on the webpages of the
Dept. of Biological Sciences (http://www.auburn.edu/-
cosam/departments/biology/index.htm) and DBS Grad-
uate Studies Program (http://www.auburn.edu/cosam/-
departments/biology/grad/index.htm)
Auburn graduate students enjoy a thriving community,
recognized as one of the \best small towns in America,"
with moderate climate and easy access to major cities,
major international airports, or to beach and moun-
tain recreational facilities. Situated along the rapidly
developing I-85 corridor between Atlanta, GA and Mont-
gomery, AL, the combined Auburn-Opelika-Columbus
statistical area has a population of over 500,000.
\` Matthew Wolak Assistant Professor Dept. of Bio-
logical Sciences Auburn University Auburn, AL email:
matthew.wolak@auburn.edu \`
Matthew Wolak <mew0099@auburn.edu >
AustinPeayStateU
PlantPopGenetics
MS Position, Comparative Plant Population Genetics
Graduate Research Assistantship, Austin Peay State
University (Clarskville, TN, U.S.A.)
Annual stipend of $15,750 and a tuition waiver for two
years
Start Date: summer 2018 (preferably June)
Contact Person: Carol Baskauf (baskaufc@apsu.edu)
Highly motivated students wishing to earn an MS in
Biology and interested in plant population genetics re-
search are invited to apply for a Graduate Research
Assistantship in Dr. Carol Baskauf's lab at Austin Peay
State University (APSU) in Clarksville, TN. The assis-tantship includes a tuition waiver and stipend for two
years ( $15,750 annually), and the successful candidate
will begin lab/eld work in the summer of 2018 before
beginning graduate classes in the fall.
Generally, research in the Baskauf lab includes plant
population genetics, ecology, and ecophysiology, with
a particular interest in rare plant species and compar-
ative studies. Specically, this NSF funded Graduate
Research Assistantship will involve genetic analysis of
several rare and widespread congeners as part of a larger
collaborative research project examining correlations be-
tween genetic diversity and phenotypic plasticity as well
as potential adaptive and/or acclimatory responses to
future environmental change by rare and widespread
species.
An undergraduate degree in a biology-related eld is
required. Competitive applicants will have excellent
written and oral communication skills and the ability
to work independently and carefully, with attention to
detail. They should also be able to work collaboratively
and to supervise undergraduates carrying out related
research. In addition to an unocial copy of college
transcripts, prospective students should send Dr. Carol
Baskauf (baskaufc@apsu.edu ) a single pdf le consisting
of a brief letter of interest and background, a CV or
resume (including GPA, GRE scores, and, if applicable,
TOEFL scores), and the names and contact information
for 3 academic or profession references. Review of ap-
plicants will begin Jan. 2 and continue until a suitable
candidate is found. For full consideration, submit all
materials prior to Feb. 1, 2018.
The successful applicant will enroll in the Masters pro-
gram prior to APSU's March 15, 2018 application dead-
line in order to be eligible to complete coursework and a
thesis leading to an M.S. degree in Biology. Information
about the graduate program is at the Biology Depart-
ment's web page (http://www.apsu.edu/grad-studies/-
graduateprograms/biology.php). General questions can
be directed to Graduate Admissions (1-800-859-4723,
gradadmissions@apsu.edu). APSU is an equal oppor-
tunity employer, and underrepresented and minority
groups are encouraged to apply.
\Baskauf, Carol" <BaskaufC@apsu.edu >
BielefeldU FunctionalGenomics
2 PhD positions in Evolutionary Ecology and Functional
GenomicsJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 35
Two PhD positions in behavioural/evolutionary ecol-
ogy and functional genomics are available at the
Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld University; one
in the Department of Animal Behaviour with Dr.
Peter Korsten (see www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-
animalbehaviour) and one in the Evolutionary Biology
group with Dr. Tim Schmoll (see www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
(en)/biologie/Evolutionsbiologie/). The positions run
from early 2018 for 36 months and are funded by the
German Research Foundation (DFG) within the recently
approved collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across
Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche
Conformance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The goal of this project (project B04 of the collabora-
tive research centre) is to test how male Zebra Finches
conform to their social niche as set by the prevailing
level of sperm competition. This will allow us to un-
derstand how individual variation in sexual competition
generates individual variation, and covariation, in both
competitive traits and parenting behaviour. The two
PhD students will closely collaborate to (i) quantify
male social niche conformance by analysing adjustment
of sexual competitiveness including behavioural (e.g.
aggression) and ejaculate (e.g. sperm motility) traits.
They will then (ii) identify the underlying mechanisms
of social niche conformance on the hormonal (via en-
docrinological proling) and the gene expression (via
RNAseq) levels, (iii) assess the adaptive signicance
of niche conformance under a niche match/mismatch
paradigm and, nally, (iv) test for trade-os between
investment in sexual competitiveness versus paternal
care. Sub-project A will primarily focus on male social
niche conformance through adjustment of behavioural
traits and the hormonal mechanisms underlying niche
conformance. Sub-project B will primarily focus on
male social niche conformance through adjustment of
ejaculate traits and the gene expression underlying niche
conformance.
The collaborative research centre: The positions will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
Research tasks (90%): - Designing and conducting lab-oratory experiments in which zebra nch males are
exposed to dierent levels of sperm competition - Main-
taining a zebra nch stock population and breeding of
experimental birds - Collecting and processing of be-
havioural recordings (sub-project A) - Collecting and
processing of hormone samples (sub-project A) - Setting
up a computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) system
(sub-project B) - Phenotyping sperm samples using
CASA and other methods (sub-project B) - Processing
of tissue samples for transcriptomic analyses - Bioinfor-
matic processing of high-throughput sequencing data to
quantify gene expression (sub-project B) - Statistical
analyses of complex experimental data - Collaborating
with other research groups in the collaborative research
centre - Writing scientic publications for international
peer-reviewed journals
Organizational tasks in the research groups and collab-
orative research centre (10%)
Applicants' proles
We are seeking two bright, highly motivated and creative
students with - a university degree in a relevant disci-
pline with specializations in one or more of the following
elds: evolutionary ecology, behavioural ecology, ani-
mal behaviour, behavioural physiology, bioinformatics,
endocrinology, neuro-ethology, transcriptomics, and/or
veterinary science, - a keen interest in using genetic
and/or endocrinological methods to answer behavioural
and life history questions, - experience with carrying
out animal experiments, preferably in birds, - experi-
ence with bioinformatic processing of high-throughput
sequencing data (sub-project B), - experience with sta-
tistical analyses of complex data sets (preferably using
R), - ability to work both independently and as part of
a team, and - excellent oral and written communication
skills in English.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage: - publications in peer-reviewed international
journals,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html36 EvolDir January 1, 2018
BielefeldU NicheSpecialization
| PhD or Postdoc position in Meta-analysis of Individual
Niche Specialization
A PhD position in meta-analysis of individual niche spe-
cialization that can be upgraded to a Post-doc position
is available at the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld Uni-
versity. The position is funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) for a duration of 40 to 45 months
within the recently granted collaborative research center
(SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualization across Behavior, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC3).
The project: The behavioural ecology of individualized
niches in light of meta-analyses will use quantitative
methods to synthesize the current knowledge on individ-
ual niche specialization. Meta-analyses oer the formal
framework, a framework that is growing in popularity
and importance in all elds of quantitative research.
Meta-analyses allow a formal assessment of the gener-
alizability of research ndings and an exploration of
context dependencies. This involves a thorough read-
ing of the published literature and will thus strengthen
both conceptual and quantitative thinking. Specically,
we will explore the extent to which factors like envi-
ronmental complexity, assortative mating, ecological
inheritance, temporal variation, niche inheritance, con-
dition dependence and others lead to between individual
variation concerning individualized niches. The project
will collaborate intensely with various empirical projects
within the SFB. It promises strong training in statistical
analyses, deep conceptual understanding and advances
in several of subelds of ecology and evolution concerned
with individualization.
The collaborative research center: The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research center
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualization across behavior, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional op-
portunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and aca-
demic networking, together with structured training,
scientic exchange and early career support programs.For more information, visit the SFB website (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
Main responsibilities §Compilation of results on in-
dividualized niche ecology from the published litera-
ture §analysis of published eects using modern meta-
analytic methodology §collaboration with other research
groups in the collaborative research center §writing sci-
entic publications for international peer-reviewed jour-
nals
Applicant's prole
We seek a bright and highly motivated candidate with
§a master's degree, and for the Post-doc position a PhD,
in a relevant eld like evolutionary or behavioral ecol-
ogy or statistics §solid knowledge in basic statistics,
including experience with statistical software such as
R or SPSS §interest in both biological and statistical
questions §motivation to read deeply into the scientic
literature on specic topics §excellent oral and written
communication skills in English §documented experience
with scientic writing will be advantageous
Remuneration
Salary will be paid according to Remuneration level E13
(65% for PhD candidates, 100% for Post-docs) of the
Wage Agreement for Public Service in the Federal States
(TV-L).
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attractive
internal and external training and further training pro-
grams. Employees have the opportunity to use a variety
of health, counselling, and prevention programs. Biele-
feld University places great importance on a work-family
balance for all its employees.
Application procedure
The deadline for application is January 14, 2018 and
interviews will take place shortly thereafter. To apply,
please provide (i) a letter of motivation, including a state-
ment of your research interests, skills and experience
relevant to the position, (ii) a CV including publication
list, (iii) names and contact details of two referees willing
to write condential letters of recommendation. All ma-
terials should be sent, preferentially as a single pdf le by
email, to the address below. For further information on
the projects and the department, please contact Klaus
Reinhold (klaus.reinhold@uni-bielefeld.de). Please note
that a twin project within the SFB has currently adver-
tised at PhD position at Jena University with Holger
Schielzeth (holger.schielzeth@uni-jena.de) and you may
want to indicate whether you are interested in either of
these positions.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 37
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcol
***Three Ph.D. studentships - Biodiversity and evolu-
tion of plant-pollinator interactions***
We are seeking three highly motivated Ph.D. students to
join a project assessing studies of plant-pollinator rela-
tionships in tropical and temperate environments. The
research is focused on changes of general characteristics
of pollination networks with environmental gradients,
as well as on case studies of selected pollination sys-
tems. All the new team members will process already
collected data and material, as well as actively partici-
pate on eld sampling (at least two larger expeditions
during the study/work) of data and their subsequent
processing in collaboration with international specialists.
The length of the study is 4 years.
The successful applicants will be supervised within the
multi-disciplinary team (www.insect-communities.cz)
at the Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic, with a close collaboration with the In-
stitute of Entomology and Institute of Botany, Czech
Academy of Sciences. The eldworks will be performed
in Cameroon and/or Czech Republic. We have more
than ten years continuous experience with various eld
projects in Cameroon. All senior members of our team
have also worked in eld in the Czech Republic since
their studies.
*Oered for all positions*
- attractive scientic topic in an established international
team
- sucient nancial and logistical sources for the projects
(currently we hold three large grants for pollination re-
search)
- 240,000 CZK net annual income for the Ph.D. students
(combination of scholarship and salary), plus various
student/employee bonuses; the income suciently cov-
ers living expenses in the Czech Republic (the national
average net income is ca. 260,000 CZK annually)*Required for all positions*
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to work as a team member, but also being
independent
- uency in English, both written and spoken
Desirable (but not necessary) for all positions
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
All applicants will send a structured CV, contacts for
three referees, and a cover letter stating their previous
work, qualication (especially all eld experience and
less usual eld/laboratory techniques) and motivation
to our group email insectcommunities@gmail.com. Each
application for the Ph.D. studies will include informa-
tion to which position(s) it is related, one application
for more positions is acceptable if the specic interests
are described in the motivation letter. Any questions
should be sent to the same email as well. The review
of applications will begin on 20th February 2018 and
will continue until the position has been lled. Selected
applicants will be interviewed through Skype in the
rst ten days of March 2018. The Ph.D. positions are
available from October 2018.
**#1 Ph.D. position: Pollination networks in frag-
mented Afromontane grasslands**
The main aim of this project is to reconstruct pollination
networks in fragmented open habitats in Cameroonian
mountains (Mount Cameroon and Bamenda Highlands).
For these purposes, we use direct collecting and obser-
vations of visitors of all currently owering plant species
in communities, as well as video-recording of these in-
teractions. Our aim is to reconstruct plant-pollination
networks in grasslands on the whole community level
under dierent seasonal, isolation and community com-
position conditions, and to disclose factors responsible
for shaping of these interactions networks. The results
will be directly comparable with similar dataset origi-
nated from the Czech Republic by the same sampling
protocols allowing us to compare pollination networks
in tropical and temperate regions. The student will
be jointly supervised by Dr. Robert Tropek and Dr.
^A ©t~A an Jane eek.
*Required for this position*
- a MSc degree in biology or related elds (in summer
2018 at the latest)
- ability to lead a eld research in challenging conditions
of tropical environments
Desirable (but not necessary)38 EvolDir January 1, 2018
- reasonable knowledge of insects and/or plants
- experience with standard entomological sampling meth-
ods
- basic knowledge of French
**#2 Ph.D. position: Organization of Afrotropical plant-
bird pollination communities**
The aim of the project is to study plant-bird interac-
tions along the tropical altitudinal gradient of Mount
Cameroon in dierent seasons, lling the knowledge gap
in the Afrotropics. The main target is to gain complex
plant-bird interaction matrices together with explana-
tory matrices related to abundance of owers, energy
supply, plant-bird morphological trait matching, and
spatio-temporal overlap of interacting organisms. The
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CityUNewYork EvolutionLysis
Doctoral student opportunities are available for
highly motivated and independent PhD students in
the Dennehy Lab <https://dennehylab.org/ >at
Queens College CUNY <http://www.qc.cuny.edu/-
Pages/home.aspx >to work on an NIH-funded
project < https://projectreporter.nih.gov/-
project infodescription.cfm?aid=9367413&icde=-
37245771 >on the control of cellular event timing
The project involves the manipulation of phage gene
expression to understand how control strategies that
buer randomness in gene expression aecting lysis time
and macromolecular assembly evolve. We are recruiting
researchers with diverse backgrounds, but experience
with phages/microbiology is desirable.
Students admitted to the CUNY Biology doctoral
program <https://www.gc.cuny.edu/Page-Elements/-
Academics-Research-Centers-Initiatives/Doctoral-
Programs/Biology >receive an admissions package that
guarantees a $30,000 annual stipend, health insurance,
and tuition remission for ve years and no teaching
responsibilities in the rst year.
Apply by January 1st 2018 at https://-
www.gc.cuny.edu/Prospective-Current-Students/-
Prospective-Students/Admissions .Email john.dennehy@qc.cuny.edu for more information.
John J. Dennehy, PhD Associate Professor of Bi-
ology Deputy Executive Ocer, Biology PhD Pro-
gram Director of Undergraduate Research Queens
College and The Graduate Center of CUNY
john.dennehy@qc.cuny.edu Oce SB D322 (718) 997-
3411 Lab SB D343 (718) 997-3419 dennehylab.org
ougr.qc.cuny.edu https://twitter.com/DrJDennehy
John Dennehy <john.dennehy@qc.cuny.edu >
ClarksonU ExperimentalEvolution
PhD position in Evolutionary Biology: Using use micro-
bial experimental evolution to explore drivers of paral-
lel evolution and adaptation in heterogeneous environ-
ments.
The Bailey Lab at Clarkson University, Potsdam NY
is looking to ll a PhD position in the Bioscience and
Biotechnology (B&B) PhD Program starting summer or
fall 2018. The successful candidate would use microbial
experimental evolution to explore processes driving par-
allel evolution, and/ or local adaptation and dispersal
evolution in heterogeneous environments. Some practi-
cal experience in microbiology is desired but training
will be provided. Along with experimental evolution, the
Bailey lab also uses a range of quantitative approaches
including statistical modelling of genome data and com-
puter simulations, and so these other approaches can
also be incorporated into the PhD project depending
on student interest and prior experience.
For more information on research in the Bailey
lab, see susanfbailey.wixsite.com/home. For more
information on the Clarkson University B&B pro-
gram, see www.clarkson.edu/graduate/bioscience-and-
biotechnology . The successful candidate will have a
BSc or MSc degree in biology or a related eld, prefer-
ably one that included a research component (e.g., a
dissertation or a thesis). The position will be funded
by a Graduate Teaching Assistantship, which involves
about 20 hours of TA work each week during the fall and
spring semesters. Qualications for this assistantship
include good interpersonal skills and good to excellent
command of the English language.
Interested students can contact Dr. Susan Bailey
(sbailey@clarkson.edu) for more details, or apply di-
rectly at www.clarkson.edu/graduate/bioscience-and-
biotechnology. Please indicate in your application that
you are responding to this ad and are specically inter-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 39
ested to work with Dr. Bailey.
Submitted application materials must include an o-
cial transcript, statement of purpose, three letters of
recommendation, and score results of the GRE aptitude
test (may be waived for some applicants). International
students for whom English is not a rst language must
also submit a TOEFL score unless their BSc or MSc
degree was in English language.
{
Dr. Susan Bailey Assistant Professor Department
of Biology Clarkson University Potsdam, NY sbai-
ley@clarkson.edu susanfbailey.wixsite.com/home
\sbailey@clarkson.edu" <sbailey@clarkson.edu >
ColoradoStateU BeeEvolution
I am recruiting highly motivated and independent grad-
uate students with strong quantitative skills to join my
lab. The position/s will begin with eldwork in the
summer of 2018, before progressing to graduate classes
at CSU in the fall. Research projects are broadly struc-
tured to understand phytochemical bases of honeybee
health and related aspects. Knowledge of beekeeping
is not required but is a plus. Successful candidates
are expected be comfortable working with honey bees,
performing regular hive maintenance, conducting be-
havioral and chemical assays in the lab, interacting
with stake holders and extension personnel. Teach-
ing and research assistantships are available. Please
see the lab website for the dierent ongoing projects
(https://pollinationbiologylab.wordpress.com/). Inter-
ested candidates are encouraged to send a preliminary
application (CV, unocial transcripts, GRE scores, con-
tact information for three references) to Arathi Seshadri,
Department of Soil and Crop Sciences, Colorado State
University, at arathi@colostate.edu. Candidates should
apply to the graduate program at the Department of
Soil and Crop Sciences, College of Agriculture, (http://-
soilcrop.agsci.colostate.edu/) before March 1 2018. Can-
didates can also apply through the Graduate Degree Pro-
gram in Ecology (http://www.ecology.colostate.edu/-
prospective.aspx) by Jan 1 2018.
\Arathi.Seshadri@colostate.edu"
<Arathi.Seshadri@colostate.edu >Copenhagen 3 Evogenomics
Three Positions in Evogenomics: Danish Natural His-
tory Museum
eDNA
PhD fellow in shotgun sequencing for comparative diet
analysis of capercaillies
Ancient Protein PhD fellow in Ancient Proteins: Pro-
teios PhD 1 The role of organic mineral interactions in
the survival of ancient proteins PhD fellow in Ancient
Proteins: Proteios PhD2 Mapping protein decay
Niels Bohr Professor University of Copenhagen Natu-
ral History Museum of Denmark m: +4593 565659 a:
Solvgade 83, Opg. S 1307 Kobenhavn K, Denmark w:
www.palaeome.org e: matthew@palaeome.org Professor
of Archaeology University of York BioArCh, Archaeol-
ogy
p: +44 1904 328806 (when in York Jan - March) m:
+447955 888101 a: BioArCh, Environment 83, Went-
worth Way, Heslington York YO10 5NG UK
w: http://www.york.ac.uk/archaeology jBioArCh
jMSc in Bioarchaeology jBioArchaeology on G+
e:matthew.collins@york.ac.uk York Oce Hours: Jan
- March: Friday 10:00 - 14:00 Book Appointment
Disclaimer: http://www.york.ac.uk/docs/disclaimer/-
email.htm Matthew Collins <matthew@palaeome.org >
DurhamU EcologyEvolutionGenetics
Please note there is an updated application due date
of January 12, 2018, for project 2 on Reconstructing
the evolutionary history of ecological dynamics and ex-
tinction risk in seabirds (see below). If interested in
applying, please contact Dr. Andreanna Welch well
in advance of this date for information about how to
submit an application.
~~~
Several competitive PhD studentship opportunities are
available in evolutionary ecology and genetics at Durham
University, UK. These 3.5 or 4-year fellowships provide a40 EvolDir January 1, 2018
full tuition fee waiver, a competitive living stipend, and a
considerable research allowance. For more information
about these projects and how to apply see https://-
sites.google.com/site/andreannajwelch/jointhelab/phd -
studentship-opportunities or contact Dr. Andreanna
Welch at a.j.welch@durham.ac.uk. Only the best appli-
cants will be asked to submit a full application.
Durham University is consistently rated as one of the
top 100 universities in the world. Located in northeast
England, the university is situated in a scenic town and
lies within a 15-minute train ride of the thriving city
of Newcastle. The department of Biosciences oers a
supportive research-driven environment with projects
ranging from the cellular to the ecosystem level.
AVAILABLE PROJECTS:
1) BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES:
BIRDS, BATS, BEES, AND COCOA TREES
Primary supervisor: Dr. Andreanna Welch (Durham
University) Co-supervisors: Dr. Darren Evans (Newcas-
tle University) Eligibility: British citizens or EU citizens
who have resided in the UK >3 years Full Application
Deadline: 17 January 2018, but contact Dr Welch by
early January to express interest
Human populations are increasing rapidly and consump-
tion is intensifying. At the same time biodiversity, which
provides critical ecosystem services, is being lost at an
unprecedented rate. Realisation of this crisis has cre-
ated an urgent need to balance agricultural production
with biodiversity. These two objectives are not disjoint,
and indeed, biodiversity can play an integral role in
increasing agricultural yields'Xsustainably. To achieve
balance, we must manage ecosystems for species that
provide support for crops (\ecosystem service species' ^A,
e.g. species that provide pest control) as well as those
that encourage biodiversity ("keystone species\), and
especially those that provide both functions ("cross-over
species\).
To truly work towards this balance, we must rst under-
stand the food web, because species vary greatly in their
value for agriculture and biodiversity services. The stu-
dent will use state-of-the-art genetics methods to deduce
the diets of animals in the food web of plants, birds,
bats and arthropods in African cacao plantations (the
main ingredient of chocolate). He or she will address:
A) Which member species are most inuential in encour-
aging crop yields and/or increasing biodiversity? B) Do
the above insights change depending on the context of
the landscape, e.g. at sites near or far from forest? C)
How can we use the above insights to manage ecosystems
that are both diverse and high-yielding?~~~
2) RECONSTRUCTING THE EVOLUTIONARY HIS-
TORY OF ECOLOGICAL DYNAMICS AND EXTINC-
TION RISK IN SEABIRDS
Primary supervisor: Dr. Andreanna Welch (Durham
University) Collaborators: Dr Helen James (Smithso-
nian Institution), Dr Terry Chesser (US Geological Sur-
vey), Dr Vincent Bretanolle (Equipe AGRIPOP, CEBC-
CNRS) Eligibility: Open to all students Full Application
Deadline: 12 January 2018, but contact Dr Welch by
early January to express interest
Even though the oceans cover the majority of the
Earth' ^As surface, birds have colonized the oceanic realm
only a handful of times during evolutionary history.
Oceanic seabirds are intimately tied to their habitat
and demonstrate many novel morphological and eco-
logical characteristics, from dynamic soaring to pursuit
diving for prey to underwater propulsion in ightless
species. Unfortunately, they are also one of the most
threatened groups of birds in the world. Thus, oceanic
birds provide an excellent system for investigation of
ecological diversication, as well as the factors asso-
ciated with extinction risk. In general the molecular
phylogeny of oceanic seabirds has been well studied,
with the striking exception of the petrels, shearwaters,
and albatrosses of the order Procellariiformes, which is
the largest and most diverse group. For this project,
the student will generate genome-scale mitochondrial
and nuclear DNA sequence data sets to build a time-
calibrated, species-level phylogeny for this order. This
tree will be combined with information about their eco-
logical, morphological, and life history characteristics,
to investigate the evolution of ecological traits as well
as the factors associated with
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DurhamU
EvolutionaryAnthropology
PhD opportunities in evolutionary anthropol-
ogy/ecology, Durham University, UK The Department
of Anthropology at Durham University is currently
advertising three PhD studentships through theJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 41
IAPETUS Doctoral Training Partnership. Applications
are encouraged from UK/EU candidates; successful
candidates for these fully funded studentships would
start in October 2018.
The three projects broadly address the theme of how
global environmental change and human-animal interac-
tions aect vertebrate populations. Please see the links
provided below for further details on each individual
project.
Citizen Scientist Engagement in Mammal Monitoring
through MammalWeb (lead supervisor Prof Russell
Hill): http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/-
2017/11/IAP-17-67-Hill-Durham.pdf Most UK mam-
mals are poorly monitored despite their ecological, eco-
nomic and cultural signicance, and the high public
prole of many species. Camera traps oer a solution,
but require citizen scientists to help implement a success-
ful programme of mammal monitoring. What motivates
citizen scientists to volunteer their time and eort for
the conservation of mammal populations? Building
upon the volunteer driven monitoring system Mammal-
Web (http://www.mammalweb.org), this project will
examine volunteer motivations and develop strategies
for enhancing volunteer engagement and retention to
produce robust mammal monitoring data.
Integrated Modelling of Environmental Adaptation for
a Model Species, the Chacma Baboon (lead supervisor
Prof Ann MacLarnon): http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/-
wp-content/uploads/2017/11/IAP-17-66-MacLarnon-
Durham.pdf How do animals integrate behavioural
and physiological adaptations to their environment?
Using behavioural observation, ecological data and non-
invasive hormone analyses, the student will investigate
the environmental adaptations of the chacma baboon,
a large-bodied, highly socially and ecologically exible
mammal living in the Soutpansberg Mountains, South
Africa, a challenging environment. The project explores
how chacma baboons optimise resource usage, how they
cope with major environmental stressors and which
environmental features most test their resilience.
Understanding Reintroduction Biases and their
Consequences in Vertebrates (lead supervisor Dr
Sally Street): http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/wp-content/-
uploads/2017/11/IAP-17-57-Street-Durham-1.pdf Why
are eorts to reintroduce threatened species biased to-
wards some mammal and bird species over others, and
how do these biases aect the outcomes of reintroduc-
tion programmes? The project will investigate these
questions using a combination of phylogenetic compar-
ative analyses to identify predictors of reintroduction
bias and success, and human experimental studies to
identify perceptions of non-human species that underpinthese patterns.
IAPETUS is a multidisciplinary Doctoral Training Part-
nership (DTP) for the environmental sciences funded
and accredited by the Natural Environment Research
Council (NERC). IAPETUS DTP studentships oer
PhD students world-class research and training oppor-
tunities, designed to train the next generation of leaders
in the science of the natural environment. Successful
candidates will benet from supervision by diverse and
experienced teams, with specialised research skills in
the relevant project methodologies.
Applications are due before 5pm on 19th January 2018,
although applicants are encouraged to discuss things
with the lead supervisor well before this date. Please
see http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/aboutstudentships/ for
full information on the application process.
Candidates should contact the named supervisors on
each project in advance before applying. Informal en-
quiries are welcome and can be made to Prof Rus-
sell Hill (r.a.hill@durham.ac.uk), Prof Ann MacLarnon
(ann.m.maclarnon@durham.ac.uk) or Dr Sally Street
(sally.e.street@durham.ac.uk).
We embrace excellence in all its forms and invite all
qualied candidates to apply. We particularly welcome
applications from women, candidates with disabilities,
black and minority ethnic candidates and other groups
who are under-represented in the University.
\sally.e.street@durham.ac.uk"
<sally.e.street@durham.ac.uk >
DurhamU FishClimateAdaptation
Competitive PhD project available in the Department
of Biosciences, Durham, UK
Title: Predicting risk and planning mitigation against
regional impact from climate change on populations of
Arctic char (Salvelinus alpines)
Description:
Arctic char have a circumpolar distribution in high
boreal, alpine and arctic habitats in the Northern Hemi-
sphere. Many southern populations are stationary in
freshwater habitats, but some especially in the north are
anadromous (moving between marine and freshwater
habitats). In many high latitude environments Arctic
char is the only sh species found in freshwater lakes.
There the lake may freeze almost to the bottom, and yet42 EvolDir January 1, 2018
the sh survive through the winter. Some data suggest
seasonality to feeding in these environments. The habi-
tat is distinctive and they are well adapted to it, but
with climate change all Arctic habitats are undergoing
a period of transition and at risk. In the case of Arctic
char, polar populations may need to become more like
those living further south. The objective of this study
is to better understand what those requirements and
transitions will need to be, and to better understand
how the impact on polar populations and the human
communities that depend on them can be mitigated.
Arctic char are an important resource and component of
local cultural traditions for a range of Arctic communi-
ties. For example, Tagish shermen used moose antlers
to drill through ice to access char, and various Inuit peo-
ple use nets set below ice and jigs for capture. Several
cultures in the high Arctic travel to set up char shing
camps in September through November and stay for a
month, shing for char. While seal meat is the staple
today for many of these communities, char remains an
important resource, especially in the summer months.
In this study the student will integrate data from fatty
acid analyses with ecological and genetic analyses. The
key objective will be to compare high Arctic populations
from Svalbard with lower latitude populations in the UK
to better understand the adaptive dierences and poten-
tial for adaptation or acclimation to a changing climate
in the Arctic environment. Arctic char are polymor-
phic within and among lakes, forming dierent ecotype
morphs suited to foraging in dierent habitats. This
includes anadromous vs stationary life histories, and
various morphologies ranging from the small ' ^Adwarf' ^A
form to a very much larger cannibalistic form. An an-
notated genome has recently been developed, and in
the context of ecological dierences, this will allow for
the assessment of key dierences among southern and
Arctic populations by comparison of candidate genes,
potentially important as adaptation markers. Data on
feeding ecology, habitat usage, morphotypic variation
and life history strategies will help determine the evolu-
tionary response to environmental change and facilitate
the interpretation of genetic results. A 3-month second-
ment will be undertaken in an Arctic research institution
in Norway (Akvaplan-niva AS, Troms ^A ©^A, Norway)
where there is extensive research on the biology and
management of char. Impact will be investigated in the
context of the cultural and economic consequences for
indigenous peoples of the Arctic.
******
Scholarship available on a home fees (UK or EU) basis.
For more information about the DTC please see https:/-
/durhamarctic.wordpress.com/ To apply please in the
rst instance send you c.v., transcripts and cover letterexplaining why you' ^Ad be well suited to this project to
a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk. Two letters of reference should be
sent to the same address. Full funding in most instances
will be for UK or EU students. For any questions please
contact Prof. Rus Hoelzel (a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk).
DurhamARCTIC < https://-
durhamarctic.wordpress.com/ >This is the temporary,
provisional website of the Durham Arctic Research
Centre for Training and Interdisciplinary Collaboration
\HOELZEL, RUS A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
GeorgiaSouthernU PlantEvolution
M.S. Position, Plant Evolution and Systematics, Georgia
Southern University
The Schenk lab at Georgia Southern University invites
applicants for a Masters Degree in plant systematics
and evolution, starting Fall semester, 2018. Our lab
group is interested in how botanical diversity has been
shaped by the interactions among morphological, eco-
logical, and species diversication. We apply statistical
phylogenetic approaches that quantify and incorporate
molecular, morphological, and ecological variation to
plant systems in order to understand the evolutionary
processes of how and why species diversify.
An ideal candidate will have interest in using plant sys-
tems to better understand the evolutionary processes
of diversication by applying statistical phylogenetic
approaches. Competitive students that meet all re-
quirements will be supported with either a teaching or
research assistantship.
Interested students should contact Dr. John Schenk
(jschenk@georgiasouthern.edu) prior to submitting an
application (the earlier the better).
For more information, visit the Schenk lab website
(https://sites.google.com/a/georgiasouthern.edu/-
schenk) and the Department of Biology's website
(http://cosm.georgiasouthern.edu/biology). More
information about the Biology graduate program
can be found at the departmental web page (http://-
cosm.georgiasouthern.edu/biology/graduate-program-
2/).
Additional questions about the GSU graduate pro-
gram can be directed to the Graduate Student Pro-
gram Director: Dr. Checo Colon-Gaud (jccolon-
gaud@georgiasouthern.edu). For full consideration, theJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 43
application deadline is March 1st, 2018.
John J. Schenk, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Plant Biol-
ogy Georgia Southern University Herbarium (GAS),
Curator Department of Biology 4324 Old Register
Road Georgia Southern University Statesboro, GA
30460-8042 Oce: 2260 Biology Building Oce phone:
(912) 478-0848 Lab website: http://sites.google.com/a/-
georgiasouthern.edu/schenk Herbarium website: http:/-
/sites.google.com/a/georgiasouthern.edu/gasherbarium
jschenk <jschenk@georgiasouthern.edu >
IGB Berlin FishEvolution
Graduate student
\Transcriptomics in sh" (from now on for a 3-year pe-
riod)
This position will focus on transcriptomics (taking ad-
vantage of whole genome information, available for two
sturgeon species) in order to elucidate the genetic basis
of variability in disease resistance and growth during
early development as well as contribute to research on
sex determination in /A. oxyrinchus /and /H. huso/.
The candidate will have the opportunity for collabo-
ration and short research stays in the facilities of the
other project partners (INRA Rennes, University of
W urzburg, DDNI Tulcea).
Applicants should have a master's degree or equivalent
in bioinformatics or a relevant life science (molecular
biology, evolutionary biology); excellent communica-
tion skills in English are required. Experience with
bioinformatics tools and pipelines (namely RNAseq and
transcriptome analysis, NGS) is highly preferred.
Salary will be given according to TV oD (50%). In
keeping with the IGB's policy regarding gender equity,
female applicants are particularly encouraged. Among
candidates of equal aptitude and qualications, a person
with disabilities will be given preference.
Review of applications meeting the required standards
will start immediately and continue until a candidate
is appointed. Please send your application and further
inquiries to Dr. Sven W urtz (wuertz@igb-berlin.de), Dr.
Heiner Kuhl (kuhl@igb-berlin.de), Dr. Matthias St ock
(matthias.stoeck@igb-berlin.de).
Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fish-
eries - IGB (Forschungsverbund Berlin) M uggelseedamm
301, D-12587 Berlin, GermanyThe Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (www.igb-berlin.de) is the largest research in-
stitute for freshwater research in Germany. It is member
of the Leibniz Association and the Forschungsverbund
Berlin e.V. IGB has close links to all three universities
in the German capital and currently hosts about 50 doc-
toral students from approximately 15 dierent nations.
Since 1996, the IGB has been committed to research
on sturgeon aquaculture, remediation and restoration,
including several national and international projects and
programs. Within the EU ERA-Net COFASP project
STURGEoNOMICS (France, Romania, Germany), the
Research Group Applied Fish Physiology and Aquacul-
ture is led by Dr. Sven W urtz; this project is coordinated
by Dr. Matthias St ock. Applications are accepted from
now until this position is lled.
Matthias Stoeck <matthias.stoeck@igb-berlin.de >
ImperialC London AvianIndelity
Linking indelity with behaviour in social networks
Indelity is common among many taxa with prevailing
social monogamy, but we still do not know what shapes
variation in, and drives the evolution of, extra-pair be-
haviour. Males are expected to reap tness benets from
siring extra-pair ospring, because extra-pair fathers do
not expend resources on costly parental care. This is,
however, not the case for females who raise the resulting
extra-pair young, posing the question of why females
take part in extra-pair matings. The indirect benets
hypothesis explains female indelity, where females ben-
et indirectly from better, or more compatible genes for
their ospring. However, this hypothesis is not well sup-
ported empirically, evidenced by two contradictory meta-
analyses on the topic, and ongoing discussion in the eld.
Specically, only one long-term study that quantied life-
time reproductive success supports the indirect tness
benets hypothesis. Contradicting this result, extra-
pair males have not been found to be superior, or more
compatible, than a female's within-pair male. Females
were found to incur no indirect benets, and even tness
costs by mating outside of their pair bond, suggesting
that that this hypothesis does not satisfactorily explain
why females cheat. Recently suggested novel, testable
hypotheses provide a fresh perspective. These hypothe-
ses explain female indelity with intra- and intersexual
antagonistic pleiotropy, and remain largely untested.
This project aims to empirically test these hypotheses44 EvolDir January 1, 2018
by using the powerful combination of long-term data
from a wild population, state-of-the-art social network
analysis and manipulative experiments on captive birds.
This project will reap the benets from long-term data
in the wild, where precise tness data and a genetic pedi-
gree allow tness costs and benets to be measured, and
quantitative genetic analyses. Given the long-standing
conundrum of female extra-pair behaviour, this project
has the potential forward this eld signicantly.
Students should be interested in extensive quantitative
data analysis, and be able to handle, and preferably
ring, birds. A BTO ringing license is benecial.
Please send your CV and a short letter of motivation,
and e-mail addresses of two academic referees, to Ju-
lia.schroeder@imperial.ac.uk before 30 December 2017.
The NERC Centre for Doctoral Training in Quantitative
and Modelling Skills in Ecology and Evolution will train
a cohort of PhD students to solve real-world ecological
and evolutionary problems by connecting theory, data,
and practice. We have assembled a world-leading set of
research organisations who develop new ecological and
evolutionary theory, new statistical and computational
methods, and translate research ndings into real-world
impacts. Our aim is to bring students together from
multiple disciplines to tackle big problems facing the
natural world.
Are you from a biological background and wish to de-
velop high-level quantitative skills? Or are you from a
non-biological discipline such as maths or physics and
wish to tackle ecological and evolutionary problems?
The CDT will bring together students from multiple
backgrounds and supervisors from multiple departments
to deliver innovative PhD training, research opportu-
nities and experiences working with a wide range of
stakeholders.
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/ Applicants
should meet the UK NERC eligibility criteria:
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/grantham/education/-
science-and-solutions-for-a-changing-planet-dtp/-
studentship-opportunities/ {
** check out our excellent Master course in Ecology,
Evolution & Conservation
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/postgraduate/-
masters-courses/masters-in-ecology-evolution{
conservation-msc-and-mres/ Dr Julia Schroeder
Lecturer
Director MSc Ecology, Evolution and Conservation
Post-graduate tutor
Imperial College London, Silwood Park Campus Buck-hurst Road, SL5 7PY Ascot, Berks, UK
+44 (0) 20 7594 9086
https://sites.google.com/site/evolbehavecol/home-1 Ju-
liaSchroeder <julia.schroeder@gmail.com >
ImperialC London
MosquitoEvolution
PhD studentship in the evolution of resistance, repro-
ductive behaviour and population biology of Aedes
mosquitoes in the Maldives (funding by NERC SSCP)
Lauren Cator, Richard Gill and Austin Burt, Imperial
College London, Silwood Park campus, UK
Deadline: 8 ^th January 2018. Competitively funded
position.
Summary:
Recognised as the most prominent vector for the trans-
mission of disease, mosquitoes have been labelled as
the deadliest animal in the world. Insecticidal spray-
ing has remained a dominant Aedes mosquito control
method to suppress adult populations, but the use of
insecticides on mosquitoes also comes with its limita-
tions and concerns, as persistent exposure can evolve
resistance leading to ineective control and inadvertent
eects to the environment. The development and use
of GM mosquitoes could provide a solution to reduc-
ing insecticidal applications, and both methods used in
complementation (i.e. pesticide knock down followed by
GM release) is considered an eective method. Small
island ecosystems, in particular, would benet from this
as reducing insecticide usage is likely to have signicant
implications given the relatively enclosed and fragile
nature of these ecosystems.
Success of applying such methods, however, requires
knowledge of the mechanism(s) and evolution of Aedes
resistance to insecticides, and the population demog-
raphy, structure and breeding behaviours for GM to
be eective. This PhD will address these aspects by
gaining a handle on relatively isolated populations of
Aedes across multiple Maldivian islands. The project
will compare islands with dierent pesticide usage his-
tories, and by studying such enclosed populations will
further look at spatial genetic structure between islands
and population dynamics over time, as well as plasticity
in breeding/nesting behaviours.
This student will primarily focus on the mosquito A.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 45
albopictus that has shown recent geographical spread
(but also A. aegypti). The project will involve some
or all of the following: eld work sampling/monitoring
populations, experimental manipulations of the envi-
ronment, lab assays to test pesticide resistance, use
of NGS to investigate genetic standing variation and
population structure, investigating molecular basis of re-
sistance, and elucidate timing and locations of breeding
and possibly mating behaviours.
This is a CASE studentship supported by a leading
resort company responsible for sustainable tourism and
contributing to conservation issues. The student will be
expected to work with the resort, intended to liaise with
the pioneer company Oxitec Ltd who uses world class
science to develop innovative solutions to controlling
pest (mosquito) populations, and meet with organisa-
tions such as WHO and governmental departments such
as Maldives Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.
For more information please see:
https://drive.google.com/le/d/-
1b0pyt8T7vo6lsbHLzrzUuyHfhLOXxOlY/view
To apply: applicants should apply directly Lauren
Cator with a CV & Cover letter (l.cator@imperial.ac.uk)
For applicant restrictions please go to: http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/grantham/education/science-
and-solutions-for- a-changing-planet-dtp/studentship-
opportunities/
\Gill, Richard J" <r.gill@imperial.ac.uk >
IowaStateU EyeEvolution
PhD position in the evolution of visual systems: the
origin of eyes and how proteins gain and lose functions
and interactions
The Serb lab at Iowa State University is looking for
motivated graduate students interested in the evolu-
tion of sensory systems and their inuence on biological
diversity. We focus on two broad topics: (a) evolu-
tionary origin of eyes and the proteins underlying vi-
sion, and (b) the evolution of visually-mediated behav-
iors and shell shape in dierent habitat types among
diverse bivalved mollusk species. We use a variety
of approaches including comparative genomics, eld-
work, protein expression experiments, and phylogenet-
ics. https://www.eeob.iastate.edu/people/jeanne-serb
Access to recent publications from the Serb lab can
be found here: https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-Jeanne Serb/contributions . Interested students should
email Dr. Jeanne Serb (serb@iastate.edu) for more in-
formation. Students can apply through the Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology (EEB) graduate program (https:/-
/eeb.iastate.edu/ ). Applications for full consideration
for graduate college fellowships and the deadline for
general consideration is 1 January 2018. ****I will
be attending the SICB meeting in San Francisco (3-7
January), and would be happy to meet any interested
student.****
EEB is an interdepartmental program of 50 faculty em-
bedded in a highly integrative and collaborative campus
(https://eeb.iastate.edu/dir/faculty/ ). Iowa State Uni-
versity is located in Ames, Iowa, a community of nearly
60,000, recently ranked as one of the most livable small
cities in the nation. The University enrolls more than
33,000 students and is committed to achieving inclusive
excellence through a diverse workforce. Iowa State Uni-
versity values diversity and is an AA/EEO employer
with an ADVANCE program. The Serb lab is committed
to a diverse workplace, and prospective students of all
races, genders, and sexual orientations are encouraged
to apply.
'X Jeanne M. Serb, PhD Associate Professor
Director, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB)
Graduate Program
Dept Ecology, Evolution & Organismal Biology Iowa
State University 2200 Osborn Dr. Room 251 Bessey
Hall Ames, IA 50011
Oce: 245 Bessey Hall Phone: 515-294-7479 Email:
serb@iastate.edu
http://www.eeob.iastate.edu/people/jeanne-serb \Serb,
Jeanne M [EEOBA]" <serb@iastate.edu >
IST Austria EvolutionaryBiol
The Institute of Science and Technology Austria (IST
Austria) is looking for highly qualied candidates to
apply for our ISTScholar PhD program. We oer fully-
funded PhD positions in the natural and mathematical
sciences in a world-class research environment on the
outskirts of Vienna.
Our PhD program is characterized by innovative training
with a special focus on interdisciplinarity, close mentor-
ing by outstanding faculty within small research groups,
and access to rst-rate facilities. Students spend the46 EvolDir January 1, 2018
rst year completing coursework and rotations before
choosing a thesis group and passing the qualifying exam.
Our PhD graduates have gone on to top positions in
academia and industry all over the world.
Students with a bachelor' ^As or master' ^As degree in
a relevant eld are encouraged to apply. We oer in-
ternationally competitive salaries co-funded by an EU
Marie Sk ^A ©^A ©odowska-Curie grant, full health bene-
ts, and subsidized on-campus housing in the rst year.
For more information about the ISTScholar PhD pro-
gram and application process, as well as faculty proles,
please visit our website at http://phd.ist.ac.at The
deadline for PhD applications is January 8th 2018 for a
start date in September 2018.
Yours sincerely,
Graduate School Oce Institute of Science and Tech-
nology Austria gradschool@ist.ac.at
Nick BARTON <nick.barton@ist.ac.at >
Jena Germany EvolEcol
PhD position in Meta-analysis of Individual Niche Spe-
cialization
A PhD position in meta-analysis of individual niche
specialization is available at the Institute of Ecology
and Evolution at Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Ger-
many. The position is funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) within the recently granted collabo-
rative research center (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel
Synthesis of Individualization across Behavior, Ecology
and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche
Construction (NC3).
The project: The project The behavioural ecology of
individualized niches in light of meta-analyses will use
quantitative methods to synthesize the current knowl-
edge on individual niche specialization. Meta-analyses
oer the formal framework, a framework that is growing
in popularity and importance in all elds of quantitative
research. Meta-analyses allow a formal assessment of the
generalizability of research ndings and an exploration
of context dependencies. This involves a thorough read-
ing of the published literature and will thus strengthen
both conceptual and quantitative thinking. Specically,
we will explore the extent to which factors like envi-
ronmental complexity, assortative mating, ecological
inheritance, temporal variation, niche inheritance, con-dition dependence and others lead to between individual
variation concerning individualized niches. The project
will collaborate intensely with various empirical projects
within the SFB. It promises strong training in statistical
analyses, deep conceptual understanding and advances
in several of subelds of ecology and evolution concerned
with individualization.
The collaborative research center: The positions will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research center
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualization across behavior, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional op-
portunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and aca-
demic networking, together with structured training,
scientic exchange and early career support programs.
For more information, visit the SFB website (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
Main responsibilities - Compilation of results on indi-
vidualized niche ecology from the published literature, -
analysis of published eects using modern meta-analytic
methodology, - collaboration with other research groups
in the collaborative research center, - writing scientic
publications for international peer-reviewed journals.
Applicant's prole We seek a bright and highly moti-
vated candidate with - a Master's degree in a relevant
eld, like evolutionary or behavioral ecology or statistics,
- solid knowledge in basic statistics, including experience
with statistical software such as R, - interest in both
biological and statistical questions, - motivation to read
deeply into the scientic literature on specic topics, -
excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish, - documented experience with scientic writing
will be advantageous.
Remuneration The position is available from 01/02/2018
or as soon as possible thereafter and will be xed-term
till end of 2021 (almost 4 years). Salary will be paid
according to Remuneration level 13 (65%) of the Wage
Agreement for Public Service in the Federal States (TV-
L). Severely handicapped people are given preference
for equal qualications, aptitude and professional quali-
cations.
Application procedure The deadline for application is
14th January 2018 and interviews will take place shortly
thereafter. To apply, please provide (i) a letter of moti-
vation, including a statement of your research interests,
skills and experience relevant to the position, (ii) a CV
including publication list, (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be sent, pref-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 47
erentially as a single pdf le by email, to the address
below. For further information on the projects and
the department, please contact Holger Schielzeth (see
email below) and/or visit the website of the Population
Ecology Group Jena (www.popecol.uni-jena.de). Please
note that a twin project within the SFB is currently
advertised with Prof. Dr. Klaus Reinhold| at Biele-
feld University (http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-
Evolutionsbiologie) and you may want to indicated if
you are interested in either of these positions.
Prof. Dr. Holger Schielzeth, Friedrich Schiller University
Jena, Institute of Ecology und Evolution, Population
Ecology Group, Dornburger
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Jena Germany EvolEcolBehavior
PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology of Predictability
in Behavior
A PhD position in evolutionary ecology of predictability
in behavior is available at the Institute of Ecology and
Evolution at Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Ger-
many. The position is funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) within the recently granted collabo-
rative research center (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel
Synthesis of Individualization across Behavior, Ecology
and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche
Construction (NC3).
The project: The project will use escape behavior in
grasshoppers as the model system for studying the
causes and consequences of (un)predictability and exi-
bility in behavior. While individuals are known to vary
in average behavior ('animal personalities'), variation
in predictability/exibility has been largely neglected,
partly because of the methodological challenges in es-
timating variability. The project thus aims to explore
a new dimension of individual specialization in animal
behavior. The evolutionary ecology of predictability will
be approached from multiple angles, making use of eld
work, laboratory breeding, quantitative genetic analy-
sis and experimentation. We will use newly developed
statistical tools for estimating individual predictability.The collaborative research center: The positions will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research center
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualization across behavior, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional op-
portunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and aca-
demic networking, together with structured training,
scientic exchange and early career support programs.
For more information, visit the SFB website (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
Main responsibilities - Management of a laboratory pop-
ulation and setup of mating experiments, - implementa-
tion of standardized behavioral trials with grasshoppers,
- analysis of behavioral data using advanced statistical
methods, - implementation of a computer simulation
for studying the tness consequences of predictability, -
collaboration with other research groups in the collabo-
rative research center, - writing scientic publications
for international peer-reviewed journals.
Applicant's prole We seek a bright and highly moti-
vated candidate with - a Master's degree in a relevant
eld, like evolutionary or behavioral ecology, - solid
knowledge in basic statistics, including experience with
statistical software such as R, - interest in experimental
laboratory and eld work, - excellent oral and written
communication skills in English, - programming experi-
ence and documented experience with scientic writing
will be advantageous.
Remuneration The position is available from 01/02/2018
or as soon as possible thereafter and will be xed-term
till end of 2021 (almost 4 years). Salary will be paid
according to Remuneration level 13 (65%) of the Wage
Agreement for Public Service in the Federal States (TV-
L). Severely handicapped people are given preference
for equal qualications, aptitude and professional quali-
cations.
Application procedure The deadline for application is
14th January 2018 and interviews will take place shortly
thereafter. To apply, please provide (i) a letter of moti-
vation, including a statement of your research interests,
skills and experience relevant to the position, (ii) a CV
including publication list, (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be sent, pref-
erentially as a single pdf le by email, to the address
below. For further information on the projects and
the department, please contact Holger Schielzeth (see
email below) and/or visit the website of the Population
Ecology Group Jena (www.popecol.uni-jena.de).48 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Prof. Dr. Holger Schielzeth, Friedrich Schiller Univer-
sity Jena, Institute of Ecology und Evolution, Popula-
tion Ecology Group, Dornburger Str. 159, 07743 Jena,
Germany, E-Mail: holger.schielzeth@uni-jena.de
\holger.schielzeth@uni-jena.de" <holger.schielzeth@uni-
jena.de >
LeidenU ExperimentalEvolution
GraduatePosition:LeidenU.ExperimentalEvolution PhD
position in Evolutionary Biology, Institute of Biology,
Leiden University, The Netherlands A 4-year PhD po-
sition in Microbial Evolution is available at the Insti-
tute of Biology <https://www.universiteitleiden.nl/en/-
science/biology >(Leiden) in The Netherlands starting
in Spring 2018.
This NWO funded project, run jointly by Daniel Rozen
and Dennis Claessen, will study the origin of complex
cells using a multidisciplinary approach that combines
experimental evolution, synthetic biology and mathe-
matical modelling (with Hyun Youk, TU Delft). We
will exploit a powerful experimental system using bacte-
rial cells that proliferate without their cell wall, called
L-forms, which can be fused to form polyploid cells
containing chromosomes with complementary, essential
functions. These fusions will give rise to synthetic mu-
tualisms in a single cell with a division of labour, and
which will allow us to elucidate the dynamics, stability
and genetic underpinnings of transitions in complexity.
Successful completion of the designated work will lead
to a PhD.
Requirements The candidate will be part of an inter-
disciplinary research team with collaborators active in
membrane chemistry and mathematical modelling. We
aim to appoint a highly creative and motivated can-
didate to actively participate and function in our col-
laborative group, which provides an inspiring research
environment with an excellent group of supervisors and
academic sta.
* The candidate should have an MSc or equivalent expe-
rience in evolutionary biology, microbiology, synthetic
biology, or related study with excellent nal marks.
* The candidate should have experience in molecular
biology.
* Experience with bioinformatics, programming and
statistics is highly desirable.* The candidate is expected to think creatively and to
work independently and as part of a collaborative group.
* The candidate should have a strong and demonstrated
command of spoken and written English.
* Further information
The PhD candidate will work at the Institute of Biology
Leiden (IBL). The IBL is an internationally oriented
institute for research and education in biology. We are
part of the Faculty of Science at Leiden University. Our
institute performs top-quality fundamental and strategic
research that provides solutions for societal challenges,
and generates industrial opportunities. The IBL repre-
sents the core of modern biological research in Leiden,
and interacts closely with neighbouring institutes, in-
cluding the Institute of Environmental Sciences (CML),
the Leiden Institute of Chemistry (LIC), the Leiden
Advanced Centre for Drug Research (LACDR), and the
Leiden University Medical Centre (LUMC).
For more information, please contact Dr.
Daniel Rozen, tel. +31 71 527 7990 e-mail
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl, or Dr. Den-
nis Claessen, tel. +31 71 527 5052, email
d.claessen@biology.leidenuniv.nl
How to apply ^ a euro ^A Written applica-
tions, including a motivation letter, a CV and
the names of 2 references should be sent by
email to d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl and
d.claessen@biology.leidenuniv.nl. Review of ap-
plications will begin on January 31st, 2018 and continue
until the position is lled.
\Rozen, D.E." <d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl >
LMU Munich Master Geobiology
Paleobiology
*Applications invited for the Master's program \Geo-
biology and Paleobiology" (MGAP) at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) Munich (Germany) for
international students until 31Jan 2018*
The Master's program \Geobiology and Paleobiology"
(MGAP) is a consecutive, research-focussed, two-year
Master of Science program at the Faculty of Geosciences
of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) Munich,
in collaboration with researchers of the Bavarian Natu-
ral History Collections and the GeoBio-Center @ LMU.
MGAP aims to provide students with a comprehensiveJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 49
introduction into the interdisciplinary research elds of
geobiology and paleobiology to prepare them for careers
in science and beyond.
The MGAP program is based on interdisciplinary,
research-oriented courses in geo- and biosciences that ad-
dress patterns and processes of evolutionary and environ-
mental geobiology and paleobiology. The module-based
curriculum provides an integrative approach facilitated
by experts in dierent areas of expertise. Students will
learn and acquire routines with a wide range of scien-
tic methods such as modern techniques in molecular
biology, eldwork, collection management, comparative
morphology, phylogeny, bioinformatics, statistics and
(paleo-) biodiversity assessments. Students will learn
independent scientic work in individual and intensively
supervised research projects at early stages of the cur-
riculum.
*MGAP in brief*
- International Master's program in Geobiology and
Paleobiology (Master of Science, M.Sc.) at the LMU
Munich
- 2 years, 4 semesters, start in October (winter semester)
- All courses taught in English
- Course total: 120 credit points (ECTS)
More information is available on the program's website:
<http://www.mgap.geo.uni-muenchen.de >
For the winter semester 2018-2019 (courses start mid-
October) the application period for international appli-
cants (from outside of the EU) ends on Jan 31, 2016.
Applicants from the EU and Germany can submit their
documents from mid Feb 2018 until May 31, 2018.
Applications have to be submitted via our online sub-
mission portal:
< https://www.efv.verwaltung.uni-muenchen.de/-
mageopal >The Department of Earth- and Envi-
ronmental Sciences (Division of Palaeontology &
Geobiology) of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
Munich oers an excellent multidisciplinary research
and learning environment, one of its particular strength
being the close interaction between Geosciences,
the Biological Faculty, and the Bavarian Natural
History collections ( <http://www.snsb.de >) in
the framework of the GeoBioCenter@ LMU ( <
http://www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de >).
The LMU Munich is the leading research university in
Germany, with a more than 500-year-long tradition, and
builds upon its success in the Excellence Initiative, a
Germany-wide competition promoting top-level univer-
sity research. LMU Munich also has been successfulin the \Qualit atspakt Lehre" initiative by the German
Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF)
to promote innovative teaching and learning. Munich
has also been repeatedly voted Germany's most liveable
city.
\oliver.voigt@lmu.de" <oliver.voigt@lmu.de >
MasseyU Auckland NZ
MicrobialEvolution
*Three* PhD Positions in the lab of Olin Silander at
Massey University, Auckland, NZ
We have three PhD scholarships available for students
with interests in evolution, microbial behaviour, and/or
microbial genomics. The positions are part of a new
Marsden-funded project (Title: The Stu Memories Are
Made Of: How Bacteria Remember and Learn from En-
vironmental Signals). The research will require a broad
range of techniques: microuidics, long read (nanopore)
sequencing, high-throughput ow cytometry, and quan-
titative phenotypic analyses.
We are seeking students with wet lab experience (e.g.
microbial genetics, molecular methods, microscopy)
and/or computational experience (e.g. python, R). The
strengths and interests of the student will determine the
precise direction and methods for each project.
The lab is in the Institute of Natural and Mathematical
Sciences at Massey University, Auckland. We study evo-
lutionary processes in bacteria, primarily Escherichia
coli, using genomic and quantitative phenotypic data
(at both the population and single-cell level).
The Institute of Natural and Mathematical Sciences has
a young and dynamic faculty with a broad range of
research interests, from statistics to ecology to evolu-
tion. Massey University is located on the North Shore
of Auckland, New Zealand, a city which is regularly
ranked among the most liveable cities in the world.
Each three-year scholarship includes an annual tax-
exempt stipend of $27,500 NZD and covers all university
fees.
To apply, please send a cover letter and CV (includ-
ing the names of two references) as a single pdf to Dr.
Olin Silander (olinsilander@gmail.com). Application
deadline is Jan. 15, 2018. Start date upon mutual
agreement.
olinsilander@gmail.com50 EvolDir January 1, 2018
MasseyU PolyploidyEvolution
A Ph.D. position (starting in 2018) is available in the
Tate lab (http://www.massey.ac.nz/ ~jtate/index.htm )
to investigate the evolution of cytonuclear coordination
in Tragopogon (Asteraceae) allopolyploids. Depending
on the interests of the student, the project can involve
dierent aspects of the larger project to include
genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, computational,
or physiological work. This position will be funded
by a Massey University Doctoral Scholarship (http:/-
/www.massey.ac.nz/massey/admission/scholarships-
bursaries-awards /other-scholarships/search-
results/search-results home.cfm?page=award d
isplay&scholarship id91) for which the successful
applicant will need to have an outstanding academic
record. An MSc in Plant Biology, Genetics, or a
similar eld is required. This project is in collaboration
with Murray Cox at Massey University, Dan Sloan at
Colorado State University, and the Soltis lab at the
University of Florida.
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, academic
transcript (unocial is ok) and the names and contact
details for three references to j.tate@massey.ac.nz with
'PhD scholarship' in the subject line. International ap-
plicants are welcomed. For full consideration, materials
must be received by January 15 ^th 2018. Starting date
is exible but must be no later than 1 November 2018.
Please feel free to email me with any questions about
the scholarship or the project.
This position oers an opportunity to experience New
Zealand's unique natural and cultural environment. Lo-
cated in Palmerston North, a university town with a
large international community which oers a range of
social and cultural amenities, the city is located close
to mountains, rivers and the sea, and presents regular
opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng, and adventure
sports.
Jennifer A. Tate, Ph.D.
j.tate@massey.ac.nz
Senior Lecturer in Plant Systematics and Evolution
Curator, Dame Ella Campbell Herbarium (MPN) Plant
Science major leader Massey University Institute of Fun-
damental Sciences Private Bag 11222 Palmerston North
New ZealandPhone: 64-6-350-5515 ext. 84718
FAX: 64-6-350-5682
\Tate, Jennifer" <J.Tate@massey.ac.nz >
NHM Denmark DNABarcoding
PhD fellow in shotgun sequencing for comparative diet
analysis of capercaillies
The EvoGenomics Group at the Natural History Mu-
seum of Denmark, Faculty of Science, University of
Copenhagen is oering a fully funded PhD scholarship
fellowship under the Plant.ID Horizon2020 European
Training Network (http://www.plantid.uio.no/), start-
ing April 2018 or as soon as possible thereafter.
The project explores applied use of the emerging genome
skimming DNA reference databases, such as the Nor-
wegian NorBol, the Alpine PhylpAlps and the Danish
DNAmark reference databases. Specically, the project
explores species-level identication of plants in animal
diets through a comparative shotgun sequencing diet
study on capercailles (wood grouse) in the Alps and
Norway.
Supervisor: Kristine Bohmann, Natural History Mu-
seum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen. Co-
supervisors: Tom Gilbert (Copenhagen), Sanne
Boessenkool (University of Oslo), and Eric Coissac (Uni-
versity of Grenoble, PhyloAlps project). Collaborators:
Torbjrn Ekrem and Inger Greve Alsos (NorBOL).
Application deadline: 15 January 2018.
More details about the PhD fellowship, contact informa-
tion, etc: http://jobportal.ku.dk/phd/?show=146109
kbohmann@snm.ku.dk
NIOO Wageningen
BirdBehaviourEpigenetics
The department of Animal Ecology at NIOO-KNAW,
NIN-KNAW and Hubrecht Institute oer a position for
a
PhD-student position on the topic:
Ecological epigenetics and the brain: the evolutionaryJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 51
consequences of epigenomic modications in a songbird
Project description:
This unique inter-disciplinary collaboration between
three of the larger institutes of the KNAW aims to
elucidate the function of epigenetic regulation in the
great tit brain to be able to study its role for the evo-
lution of behaviour. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as
DNA methylation and histone modication, are key
epigenetic mechanisms that can alter gene expression,
thereby aecting behavioural variation, both short- and
long-term. While we know that epigenetic mechanisms
act on dierent time scales and may be expressed in
dierent tissues or brain regions, an essential gap in
our knowledge is: how do epigenomic alterations con-
tribute to tness variation and what is their role in the
evolution of behavioural traits? To be able to answer
this question, we will obtain detailed information on
the epigenetic processes underlying behavioural traits
in a species where we can measure the tness conse-
quences in a natural environment, the great tit (Parus
major). However, our knowledge of epigenetic mecha-
nisms underlying behavioural traits in wild vertebrates
are limited to few studies on DNA methylation, thus
severely hampering the eld of ecological behavioural
epigenetics. Furthermore, some of the more relevant
epigenetic signatures that explain how tissues behave
intrinsically as well as in response to the environment
do not necessarily involve DNA methylation but are
rather governed by histone modications. Our main
objective is to translate the knowledge from the semi-
nal work done in model organisms and to convert this
to an ecological model species to be able to study the
ecological and evolutionary consequences of epigenomic
alterations.
This PhD project will have three main aspects:
i) Measure DNA methylation and histone acetylation in
specic brain regions in hand reared captive great tits
and relate this to variation in a range of behavioural
traits.
ii) Validate the link between epigenetic marks and be-
haviour in the mouse and the rat.
iii) Link variation in epigenetic marks to tness measures
in a natural population of great tits.
Requirements: We are looking for a highly motivated,
inventive, communicative biologist with a background
in behavioural (epi)genetics or behavioural neuroscience.
Experience with NGS technologies and/or bioinformat-
ics are important advantages. A high standard of spoken
and written English is required, as are good quantita-
tive and analytical capabilities. This is a collaborative
project, excellent interpersonal and communication skillsand required. - you should have an MSc or equivalent in
Biology or a related discipline, preferably with a strong
background in Ecological Genetics or Neurobiology. -
you are expected to have an excellent academic record
(list of examination marks from your university study)
and be curious, creative and ambitious - you should be
able to write scientic articles and reports (to be proven
by your graduation thesis or another comparable report)
and be uent in English both in writing and speech.
Appointment: This is a temporary appointment, ini-
tially for 1 year and upon satisfaction to be prolonged for
a maximum of 4 years total, hosted at the NIOO-KNAW,
Department of Animal Ecology (1.0 fte). Starting date
is 1 March 2018.
Salary: Salary depends on training and work experience.
The gross salary starts at ^A 2.222,- per month in the
1st year, and will gradually increase to a maximum of
^A 2.840,- per month in the 4th year, scale P, 38 hours
per week, Collective Agreement for Dutch Universities
(CAO NU), plus 8% holiday pay and a year-end bonus.
We oer an extensive package of fringe benets.
Information: Additional information is available upon
request from Dr. K. van Oers, k.vanoers@nioo.knaw.nl
or +31 317-473456. Information on NIOO-KNAW can
be found here http://www.knaw.nl How to apply: You
may apply for this position before 8 January 2018 by
means of sending an email to vacature@nioo.knaw.nl.
Applications for the position should include a Curricu-
lum vitae a motivation letter and names and (email)
address of two academic references and Vacancy number
(PhD-AnE-017011)
Interviews will take place early February 2018
\Oers, Kees van" <K.vanOers@nioo.knaw.nl >
NIOO Wageningen VirusEvolution
The Department of Microbial Ecology oers a PhD
position on the topic:
Dynamics of adaptation in multipartite plant viruses
Project description
Multipartite viruses have two or more genome segments,
packaged individually into virus particles. This virus-
particle organization should have major drawbacks for
infection eciency, but surprisingly multipartite viruses
are nevertheless common among plant viruses. The fre-
quency of these dierent segments can vary, but appears52 EvolDir January 1, 2018
to converge on a host-species-dependent equilibrium. As
part of the NWO VIDI project of Dr. Mark P. Zwart
on the evolution of multipartite viruses, we want to
use experimental evolution to study how resistant this
equilibrium is to perturbations. We also want to know
what role variation in genome segment frequencies plays
in adaptation to new environments, and how it aects
the expression of virus and host genes. This project will
be a close collaboration with Wageningen University, in
particular with Prof. Dr.ir. Ren e van der Vlugt and
Prof. Dr. Monique van Oers (Laboratory of Virology)
and Prof. Dr. Arjan de Visser (Laboratory of Genetics).
Requirements:
1. MSc degree in virology, microbiology, evolutionary
biology or a closely related eld 2. The ideal candidate
will have demonstrable experience with both (plant)
viruses and evolution 3. Highly motivated candidate
with creative, critical and conceptual thinking skills 4.
Experience with molecular methods 5. Good commu-
nication skills in English (written and spoken) and the
ability to work in a team are essential
Interviews with selected candidates are scheduled for
Thursday, 1 February 2018.
Appointment: This is a temporary appointment, ini-
tially for 1 year and upon satisfaction to be prolonged
for a maximum of 4 years (1fte) or 5 years (0.8fte).
Starting date: March/April 2018
Salary: The gross salary starts at euro 2.174, - per
month in the 1st year, and will gradually increase to a
maximum of euro 2.779, - per month in the 4th year,
scale P, Collective Agreement for Dutch Universities
(CAO Nederlandse Universiteiten), excluding 8% holi-
day pay and a year-end bonus.
Location: The Netherlands Institute of Ecology,
NIOO-KNAW in Wageningen, The Netherlands. For
more information see: https://nioo.knaw.nl/en. <
https://nioo.knaw.nl/en >
Information: Additional information is available
upon request from Dr. Mark Zwart. Email:
m.zwart@nioo.knaw.nl Tel:+31 (0317)-473431.
Applications: Please send your application, including
full curriculum vitae and names of three referees and
vacancy number, to vacature@nioo.knaw.nl The closing
date for applications is 14 January, 2018. The vacancy
number is ME-017707.
\M.Zwart@nioo.knaw.nl" <M.Zwart@nioo.knaw.nl >NIOZ Netherlands
EvolutionMarineCommunities
Dear colleagues, I am pleased to announce that a
PhD position on \Community dynamics at deep-sea
hydrothermal vents under dierent disturbance regimes"
was opened at the NIOZ (Royal Netherlands Institute
for Sea Research). A detailed description of the position
and application instructions can be found here
https://www.workingatnioz.com/our-jobs/phd-student-
\community-dynamic s-at-deep-sea-hydrothermal-vents-
under-dierent-disturbance-regimes" .html
Interested applicants can contact me under
sabine.gollner@nioz.nl for additional information.
Thank you for circulating this announcement,
Kind regards,
Sabine Gollner
Dr. Sabine Gollner
NIOZ Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research
Department of Ocean Systems (OCS)
Landsdiep 4 1797 SZ 't Horntje (Texel)
The Netherlands
phone: +31 222 369 426
E-mail: sabine.gollner@nioz.nl
PhD Student \Community Dynamics at Deep-sea Hy-
drothermal Vents Under Dierent Disturbance Regimes"
The department of Ocean Systems (OCS, department
head prof. dr. Gert-Jan Reichart) is looking for a
highly motivated PhD candidate that would like to con-
tribute to the understanding of community dynamics at
deep-sea hydrothermal vents under dierent disturbance
regimes. 2017-11-20 14:43:15
LOCATION: ROYAL NIOZ-TEXEL (NL)
VACANCY ID: 2017-092
CLOSING DATE: January 14th, 2018
THE RESEARCH
The deep sea is changing. Future stressors, in the form
of mineral mining, are expected at deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents, since the global need for minerals is rising.
Vents host unique communities that live under extremeJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 53
conditions of hot and toxic vent uid emissions and face
natural disturbance events such as volcanic eruptions.
Currently, our knowledge of community dynamics at and
next to vents is scarce and limits our ability to predict
resilience to natural and mining-related disturbances.
Recent research has shown that vent communities in
the Northern East Pacic Rise undergo quick succession
after the frequent volcanic eruptions. In contrast, obser-
vations in the Western Pacic Lau back-arc basin have
shown that geological setting and composition of vent
megafauna communities are more stable. To understand
the resilience of vent communities in dierent geological
settings, we need to study diversity, succession, and
connectivity.
THE PROJECT
In this multidisciplinary research project, you will assess
temporal community dynamics of meio- and macrofauna
at Lau Basin vents and will compare them to the dynam-
ics at the East Pacic Rise. You will perform genetic
analyses of selected species from Lau Basin and East Pa-
cic Rise vents to unravel connectivity and population
genetics in these distinct geological settings. This funda-
mental knowledge will help to elaborate environmental
management plans in the context of mineral mining.
THE CANDIDATE
You are a highly motivated young researcher with an
MSc degree in marine sciences, ecology, zoology, or envi-
ronmental sciences. You are open-minded and want to
work across disciplines - ranging from classical taxonom-
ical work and ecological analyses to genetic applications
and population genetics analyses.
Do you already have experience with genetic methods?
Do you have a keen interest in hydrothermal vent fauna,
including sorting and identication of animals? Want to
join research cruises at high seas? Join our research team
and help us fathom community dynamics at deep-sea
hydrothermal vents.
Since you will work in an international and interdisci-
plinary research environment it is essential that your
oral and written English skills are good.
CONDITIONS
We are oering a 4-year full-time position with a pen-
sion scheme, a yearly 8% vacation allowance, a year-end
bonus and exible employment conditions. Working con-
ditions are based on the Collective Labour Agreement
for Research Institutes (WVOI). Cost of relocation and
help with housing is provided by the Royal NIOZ.
MORE INFORMATION
For additional information about this vacancy, pleasecontact Dr. Sabine Gollner.
For additional information about the procedure, please
contact Jolanda Evers (senior HR advisor).
Learn more about the department of Ocean Systems
here.
Please note: interviews will be held on the 23 ^rd and
24^th of January, 2018.
Sabine Gollner <Sabine.Gollner@nioz.nl >
NorthDakotaStateU
EvolutionaryBiol
The Dochtermann Lab in the Department of Biological
Sciences at North Dakota State University is seeking
to ll a PhD assistantship as part of a project examin-
ing how evolutionary factors and habitat change shape
behavioral syndromes (trait correlations). The student
will develop and pursue their own research topics while
also working within a broader NSF funded project.
In our lab we focus on evolutionary questions regarding
the maintenance of variation within and among popu-
lations and the evolutionary implications of how traits
are correlated.
The position will start Fall Semester 2018. The student
will be housed and working in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences (https://www.ndsu.edu/biology/) with
their degree awarded through the NDSU Environmental
Sciences and Conservation Program.
Requirements: Bachelors or Masters in ecology, evolu-
tion, animal behavior, or related eld; experience collect-
ing and analyzing data; ability to work independently
and as part of a larger collaborative group.
Preferred: MSc preferred; experience conducting quan-
titative genetic experiments; eld research experience
If interested please contact me at
ned.dochtermann@gmail.com and provide a brief
synopsis of your research interests.
Ned
{ Ned A. Dochtermann Assistant Professor / Department
of Biological Sciences / NORTH DAKOTA STATE
UNIVERSITY p: 701.231.7353 / f: 701.231.7149
/ http://www.ndsu.edu www.neddochtermann.com
ned.dochtermann@ndsu.edu
Ned Dochtermann <ned.dochtermann@gmail.com >54 EvolDir January 1, 2018
RoyalHolloway ULondon
EvolutionGenomicArchitecture
The following PhD studentship is available at Royal Hol-
loway, University of London: The Evolution of genomic
architecture
It is a 4 year funded PhD that will be part of the London
NERC Doctoral Training Programme (see london-nerc-
dtp.org/). The studentship is fully funded for 4 years for
UK/EU applicants (residence conditions apply). Tuition
Fees: pounds 4,195.00 p.a. Stipend: pounds 16,553.00
p.a. with London Weighting. Closing date 8/1/18.
For further details how to apply see https://-
www.royalholloway.ac.uk/biologicalsciences/study-
here/research- degrees/phdstudentships2017.aspx
We are looking for candidates with an interest in this
fundamental biological question, and preferably some
modelling experience. This includes biologists with
an interest and some experience in modelling as well
as mathematicians/computer scientists/physiscists etc
with an interest in evolutionary biology
For further information contact vin-
cent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk
The Evolution of genomic architecture
Supervised by profs Vincent Jansen (Royal Holloway)
and Nick Lane (UCL)
How did life on Earth form? Why are our cells the way
they are? These are still open questions. Mitochondria
transitioned from free-living bacteria to obligate sym-
bionts of eukaryotic cells. In this process they gave up
a good part of their genome (either lost or transferred
to the nucleus of their host cell) and their reproductive
independence (which is now controlled by the nucleus).
Little is known regarding this fundamental transition
(explained in detail in Nick Lane's book \The vital
question"). What are the selective pressures on genes
in the mitochondria and the nucleus? Is there an ad-
vantage to being in the mitochondria, where you will
be passed on to all daughters, or is it better to be in
the nucleus, where you could be passed on to sons and
daughters? We are interested in which scenarios favour
the transfer of genes from bacteria engulfed by a cell to
the nucleus, and the transfer of reproductive control to
the host nucleus. We do this through studying models
of the evolutionary dynamics of mitochondrial genes,trying to quantify private interest and the common good
of genes, building on recent modelling advances (as in
Ubeda and Jansen 2017). In this work we will take a
gene eye-view on the evolution of mitochondria we will
be able to determine when the gene copies in the nuclear
genome would outcompete the ones in the mitochon-
drial genome. In a further stage it might be possible
to test model predictions using model organism such as
Chlamydomonas and Yeast. Candidates interested in
applying for this project will need an interest to work on
questions relating to the fundamental principles in the
evolution of life. We would be very happy to consider
candidates with a background in quantitative sciences,
such as mathematics, physics, or computer science.
References
N. Lane. The Vital Question. Prole Books 2015
F.~Abeda & V. A. A. Jansen (2017) The evolution
of sex-specic virulence in infectious diseases. Na-
ture Communications 7, Article number: 13849 (2016)
doi:10.1038/ncomms13849
van Baalen, M. and Jansen, V.A.A. (2001) Dangerous
liaisons: the ecology of private interest and common
good. Oikos 95: 211-224.
Hadjivasiliou, Z., Seymour, R. M., Lane, N. and Pomi-
ankowski, A. (2013) Dynamics of mitochondrial inheri-
tance in the evolution of binary mating types and two
sexes. Proceedings of the Royal Society B 280: 1-8.
Vincent Jansen
\Jansen, Vincent" <Vincent.Jansen@rhul.ac.uk >
SouthDakotaStateU
EvolutionaryGenomics
Master's Student Opportunity at the CBFenster Lab,
SDSU
Project: Predict mutational eects using comparative
genomic approaches
Research Area: Evolutionary Genomics of mutation at
Arabidopsis thaliana
Location: South Dakota State University, Department
of Biology and Microbiology/Department of Mathemat-
ics and Statistics, Brookings, SD
Mutations, the ultimate source of all genetic variation,
provide the substrate that fuels evolution. However,January 1, 2018 EvolDir 55
most mutational input to genetic variation is subse-
quently eliminated by selection or drift in natural popu-
lations. Why some mutations are eliminated and others
preserved or xed in natural populations and whether
there is a correlation between the preservation of a given
mutation and the magnitude of the mutation eect are
key questions in biology.
Equipped with the most comprehensive mutation prole
of a plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana, the CBFen-
ster lab (charlesbfenster.wordpress.com) in collabora-
tion with Xijin Ge's lab (http://ge-lab.org/), both at
South Dakota State University, provides a great op-
portunity for graduate students to study spontaneous
mutations using computational tools. The collaboration
reects a joint mentoring opportunity from biological
and mathematical/statistical perspectives and will in-
clude mentoring by Dr. Mao-Lun Weng, a postdoc
on the project (https://maolunweng.wordpress.com/).
Sequence data reect a joint collaboration among the
Fenster (SDSU), Rutter (CoC), Weigel (Max Planck)
and Wright (U of Toronto) labs, funded by NSF.
The prospective student will investigate the eect of
mutation at protein-coding genes from protein struc-
ture and gene network perspectives. Given an observed
spontaneous mutation in mutation accumulation study,
the student will: (1)Use protein structure prediction
algorithms to simulate the protein structure from the mu-
tated sequence and test whether the mutation has strong
eects on protein structure stability. (2)Using a gene
expression network investigate whether the mutation
has a potentially large eect on network connectivity.
We hypothesize deleterious mutations will detrimentally
change protein structure or be associated with proteins
having high network connectivity. We can validate these
hypotheses by comparing the mutated protein-coding
genes in A. thaliana to other related species. If the
mutated position in the protein-coding gene also shows
sequence variation among related species, it suggests
that this mutation did not have strong eects, i.e. less
deleterious. Furthermore, we can compare overlap of
these mutations in the mutation accumulation study
and in natural populations. If mutations are deleterious,
as predicted by protein structure stability, they are less
likely to be present in natural populations.
This is a bioinformatics oriented project. The prospec-
tive student will obtain skills of computational ap-
proaches to study protein structure and gene network,
and learn phylogenetic and population genetic theories
on mutations.
Students can begin as early as January 2018, but more
likely summer or fall 2018.Funding will include teaching assistantship support and
NSF funded summer salary.
Please email all mentors if you are interested
in the project: charles.fenster@sdstate.edu; xi-
jin.ge@sdstate.edu; maolun.weng@sdstate.edu
Mao-Lun Weng PostDoc Associate Department of Bi-
ology and Microbiology South Dakota State University
Brookings, SD 57007 USA maolunweng.wordpress.com
\Weng, Mao-Lun" <MaoLun.Weng@sdstate.edu >
StAndrews EvolBiol
Dear EvolDir
The University of St Andrews, Scotland, in association
with the Chinese Scholarship Council, is oering up to
30 fully funded 4-year PhD studentships for Chinese
nationals. The deadline for applications is Fri 19 Jan
2018.
Full details of the programme are available at https://-
www.st-andrews.ac.uk/study/international/csc/ Appli-
cants are strongly advised to make contact with prospec-
tive supervisors before applying. A full list of Principal
Investigators at the School of Biology is available at
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/people/ Please do pass
along this information to anyone who may be interested.
Best wishes Andy Gardner
{ Dr Andy Gardner Reader in Biology University of St
Andrews Dyers Brae St Andrews KY16 9TH United
Kingdom
Email. andy.gardner@st-andrews.ac.uk Web. http://-
synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/gardner/ Tel. +44 (0) 1334
463 385 Fax. +44 (0) 1334 463 366
\andy.gardner@st-andrews.ac.uk" <andy.gardner@st-
andrews.ac.uk >
StirlingU
WildMandrillsSexDierences
Quantifying Sexual Partitioning in Diet and Habitat Use
in Wild Mandrills in a Dynamic Rainforest Savannah
Landscape (Ref IAP-17-126)56 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Project Description
As natural habitats are confronted with substantial en-
vironmental change, we urgently need more information
on the resilience of at-risk populations in the face of dis-
turbance. Historically, our eorts to predict responses
to environmental stress has been hampered because of
challenges in studying both how wild animals exploit
space and what they eat. For example, although habitat
and dietary choices dier substantially across species,
inferring how these factors aect resilience to change
is quite dicult because dierent taxa vary in many
characters in addition to habitat and diet. Intraspecic
sexual dierences in functional traits also have dramatic
eects on how individuals acquire and use environmental
resources. Species with strong dimorphism are therefore
ideal for studying how functional traits aect resilience
to disturbance. The extreme sexual dimorphism of Man-
drills (Mandrillus sphinx) presents an opportunity to
study plasticity in diet and habitat use within the same
species, a sharp contrast that isolates spatial and dietary
dierences from other variables including dierences due
to phylogenetic background.
Mandrills are the most sexually dimorphic primates:
males possess remarkable ornaments that are important
for sexual signalling, weigh three times as much as fe-
males and take much longer to reach sexual maturity.
Both ornamental traits and size have strong links with
resource availability, and may at least partly explain
observations of sexual dierences in space use within
Lop e National Park in Gabon. Whatever the proximate
cause of dierences in space use, females exploit a wider
range of habitats, and travel within very large groups,
while mature males range less and spend much of the
year outside of the group.
Work at Lop e has shown that forest structure and com-
position changes over relatively small temporal and
spatial scales, and that fruit resources have recently de-
clined and become less predictable; such changes mirror
global forecasts of increasing uncertainty surrounding
environmental change. Consequently, the sexual dif-
ference in mandrill space use (and its implications for
how males and females exploit ephemeral and widely
spaced food resources) may be a useful model for the
prospects of at-risk populations. In addition, this work
will shed light on condition-dependent sexual selection
in heterogeneous environments.
Methodology This PhD studentship contributes to a
broader, integrative, eort to study the natural history
and resilience of Mandrills in the face of environmental
change. It has three main aims: 1. To quantify sexual
dierence in habitat use, and relate this space use to
the nutritional resources contained therein. Here wewill exploit the existence of a number of radiocollared
animals in the Lop e NP mandrill horde. The candidate
will combine historical measures of animal movement
with continued tracking of animals of both sexes using
radio telemetry. 2. To quantify temporal variation in
food resource availability, and relate this variation to
diet and space use as well as sexual trait expression.
Here we will take advantage of modern analytic tools
and continued monitoring of the fruiting phenology of
food producing trees in Lop e NP. The candidate will
map resource availability alongside habitat use, monitor
changes in sexual trait expression over time using cam-
era trap networks, and collect dung and tissue samples
to assess the eects of local environmental resources
on both diet and habitat use for both sexes. We will
analyse these samples using isotope ecology at the state-
of-the-art Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility at
SUERC in East Kilbride. 3. To calibrate Stable Isotope
Analysis estimates of diet use through careful measures
of a captive mandrills. The candidate will measure
tissue turnover rates (e.g., by examining growth rates
of dierent hairs on dierent individuals), and use diet
manipulations to calculate the diet-tissue discrimination
factor for the dierent isotope ratios.
For more information and background reading,
see: https://goo.gl/y4BHXd Funding Notes This
competition-funded studentship is part of the NERC
Doctoral Training Partnership IAPETUS (http://-
www.iapetus.ac.uk/). It will cover tuition fees and a
stipend for UK students only (but see NERC funding
rules for exceptions regarding EU citizens).
To apply, contact Luc Bussiere (luc.bussiere@stir.ac.uk)
ASAP to indicate your interest and obtain further in-
structions. The formal application to the University
of Stirling Graduate School (including a current CV,
personal statement, two references, and full transcripts)
is due no later
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StockholmNHM Mammoth
Genomics
PhD student position on evolutionary genomics of the
woolly mammothJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 57
Swedish Museum of Natural History & Stockholm Uni-
versity
PROJECT DESCRIPTION The purpose of this PhD
project is to use the woolly mammoth as a model system
to investigate evolutionary changes in real time. At a ge-
netic level, micro-evolution is the result of an interaction
between natural selection and genetic drift, where the
latter increases in importance the smaller a population
becomes. To examine this interaction, we will generate
up to 100 woolly mammoth genomes dated to the last
25,000 years of the species' ^A existence. This time pe-
riod encompasses several dramatic changes in climate
at the end of the Pleistocene (15-11 kya) as well as the
subsequent isolation of mammoths on Wrangel Island,
where a very small population survived for 6,000 years
until the species became extinct. The genomic data
will be used to examine the impact of climate change
as well as island isolation on adaptive evolution and
demography in the woolly mammoth. Moreover, we will
investigate the timing, rate and extent of genome ero-
sion in the Wrangel Island population leading up to the
species extinction. For this project, good knowledge in
population genetics, bioinformatics as well as experience
of laborative DNA analysis are important qualications.
The PhD project will be supervised by Professor Love
Dal ^A^An at the Department of Bioinformatics and
Genetics, Swedish Museum of Natural History. For
more information about the research group, please visit
www.palaeogenetics.com/adna ENVIRONMENT The
PhD student will be employed by Stockholm University
(Department of Zoology), but will be based at the De-
partment of Bioinformatics and Genetics at the Swedish
Museum of Natural History (SMNH). The museum is
located in Stockholm, which by many is regarded as one
of the most beautiful capitals in the world and is home
to a vibrant scientic community with several leading
research institutes as well as the National Genomics
Infrastructure at the Science for Life Laboratory. The
SMNH has a strong mission in natural history research,
and its research division has more than 170 employees.
The department of Bioinformatics and Genetics hosts
three research groups, focused on ancient DNA and
population genetics (PI: Prof. Love Dal ^A^An), avian
systematics and biogeography (PI: Dr. Martin Irestedt),
and phylogenomics (PI: Prof. Fredrik Ronquist).
QUALIFICATIONS In order to meet the general en-
try requirements, the applicant must have completed a
second-cycle degree, completed courses equivalent to at
least 240 higher education credits, of which 60 credits
must be in the second cycle, or have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere. In or-
der to meet the specic entry requirements, the general
syllabus for doctoral studies in the eld of Systemat-ics and Evolution stipulates that applicants must must
have completed a research degree (e.g. Master' ^As),
or have passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological
studies, including an approved independent project of at
least 30 hp at advanced level (\examensarbete") within
systematics and evolution, ecology, population genetics,
bioinformatics or a similar subject. Applicants who have
in principle acquired the corresponding competence in
Sweden, or abroad, are also qualied.
TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT The four year PhD pro-
gram includes three years of research and one year of
course work. The salary follows the agreement for PhD
positions at Stockholm University.
CONTACT For questions about the position and further
information about the project, contact Prof. Love Dal
^A^An, Email: love.dalen@nrm.se
HOW TO APPLY Applications should be done us-
ing Stockholm University's online application sys-
tem. Please follow the link below to obtain fur-
ther information about how to write your applica-
tion and how to access the online application sys-
tem: http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjobC37&rmlang=UK Closing
date: 15 January 2018 Reference number: SU FV-3830-
17
Love Dal ^A^An Professor of Evolutionary Genetics
Department of Bioinformatics and Genetics Swedish
Museum of Natural History Box 50007 SE-104 05
Stockholm, Sweden Email: love.dalen@nrm.se Webpage:
www.palaeogenetics.com/ld Love.Dalen@nrm.se
StockholmU BrainEvolution
PhD position in Ethology
at the Department of Zoology, Stockholm University,
Sweden
Deadline for application: January 31, 2018.
A PhD position focused on cognitive evolution is avail-
able in Alexander Kotrschal's research group in the
Department of Zoology at Stockholm University. The
project uses the guppy (Poecilia reticulata) as a model
to comparatively and experimentally investigate the fac-
tors driving cognitive evolution. As such, the project
spans over multiple disciplines including eld collections,
articial selection, assays of behaviour and detailed tests
of cognitive ability, brain imaging and neural density es-58 EvolDir January 1, 2018
timations, and analyses of the genomic architecture that
orchestrates changes in brain anatomy and cognitive
ability.
The project will use both animals from wild populations
with known dierences in ecology, and from a selection
experiment. These animals will be subjected to relevant
assays of behaviour, brain anatomy and genomics. The
overall aim of the project is thus to increase our under-
standing of the evolutionary relationship between brain
anatomy, cognitive ability and the genome.
The work will mostly be lab-oriented but includes at
least one trip to Trinidad. The project will require hard
work but at the same time provide excellent opportuni-
ties for personal initiatives and development towards a
successful academic career. An important task will be
to undertake laborious selection experiments followed
by the collection and analysis of complex data in a way
that controls for the setup of replicated articial selec-
tion designs. The project is undertaken in Trinidad and
in a brand new section of the large tropical freshwater
sh labs in the Department of Zoology with established
assays of brain anatomy, several dierent aspects of
cognitive abilities, swimming parameters, personality,
individual and collective behaviour, etc.
The successful candidate will be part of an international
team consisting of an Ethologist (Alexander Kotrschal,
Stockholm University), Evolutionary Biologist (David
Reznick, University of California & Trinidad), Genome
Biologist (Alison E. Wright, University of Sheeld),
and Information Technology researcher (Kristiaan Pel-
ckmans, Uppsla University) that investigate the evolu-
tion of cognition, brain anatomy and the genome using
state-of-the-art methods.
Qualication requirements
The applicant must have completed a research degree
(e.g. Master's or equivalent) within Ethology, Zoology,
Behavioural Ecology, Evolutionary Biology or a related
subject. We are looking in particular for candidates
with a strong interest in cognitive evolution, with excel-
lent analytical ability and experience from quantitative
analyses of behaviour and other traits of interest. Ex-
perience in genomic analyses and working with aquatic
animals in the lab is especially meriting.
For more information on the position (Ref: SU FV-4158-
17) and to apply follow this link:
http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=4449&rmlang=UK Contact
Questions? Please contact Dr Alexander Kotrschal,
alexander.kotrschal@zoology.su.se
For more information about research in the Kotrschallab see: http://www.zoologi.su.se/en/about/sta/-
person.php?suuid=akotr Alexander Kotrschal
<alexander.kotrschal@zoologi.su.se >
StockholmU ColourEvolution
PhD position in Ethology
at the Department of Zoology, Stockholm University,
Sweden
Deadline for application: January 15, 2018.
A PhD position focused on colour evolution is available
in John Fitzpatrick's research group in the Department
of Zoology at Stockholm University. The aim of this
project is to understand how natural and sexual selection
inuence the evolution of animal colouration. To achieve
this aim, the project will use on both comparative and
experimental approaches. To examine how natural se-
lection inuences animal colouration, the project will
examine the evolution of distinct markings (spots and
eyespots) in rays, a group of cartilaginous sh with ex-
treme diversity in body patterns and colouration, and
examine how marine and avian predators response to
distinctive markings presented by rays. To examine
how sexual selection inuences sexual colouration, the
project will use a comparative approach to quantify how
variation in animal mating behaviours inuences sex-
ual dichromatism across a range of taxonomic groups.
Finally, the project will experimentally examine how
females evaluate male sexual ornaments using small
tropical freshwater sh in the lab.
The work will be desk (for comparative studies) and
lab (for experiments) oriented, taking advantage of the
brand new tropical freshwater and marine sh labs in
the Department of Zoology, with room for over 6,000
aquaria and several experimental rooms. The Depart-
ment of Zoology is already home to extensive expertise
in studying anti-predator colouration and signaling and
state-of- the-art facilities to assess behaviour and sexu-
ally selected traits (e.g. unique 2D and 3D behavioural
tracking software, computer-assisted sperm analysis soft-
ware (similar to what is used in human fertility clin-
ics), high-speed cameras, spectrophotometers for colour
analyses). The successful candidate will join a rapidly
growing sexual selection group in the Department and
will be provided with excellent opportunities for per-
sonal and professional development towards a successful
academic career.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 59
Qualication requirements
We are looking in particular for candidates with a strong
interest in evolutionary biology, with excellent analytical
ability and experience quantifying animal colouration
and in the analyses of behaviour and other traits of
interest. Experience in working with phylogenetic com-
parative methods and aquatic animals in the lab is espe-
cially meriting. In particular, a background in research
with rays, particularly from a comparative perspective,
is especially desired for this project. Applicants who
have in principle acquired the corresponding compe-
tence in Sweden or in another country are also qualied.
Therefore, overseas applications are encouraged.
For more information on the position (Ref. nr. SU
FV-4166-17) and to apply follow this link:
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=4439&rmlang=UK Contact
Questions? Please contact Dr John Fitzpatrick,
john.tzpatrick@zoology.su.se
For more information about research in the Fitzpatrick
lab see: http://www.zoologi.su.se/en/about/sta/-
person.php?suuid=jfrit john.tzpatrick@zoologi.su.se
SU NHM Stockholm
ArcticBiodiversity
PhD Student Position in Arctic and Alpine Biodiversity
Stockholm University and the Swedish Museum of Nat-
ural History
Closing date: 2 February 2018 Reference number: SU
FV-4051-17
PROJECT DESCRIPTION This position will be asso-
ciated with the Formas-funded project \Has altitude
variation in species communities along the Fennoscan-
dian mountains been shaped by neutral or competition
based processes?". This project includes collaborators
from the Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm University and University of Oviedo. It is closely
associated with Arctic Islands, a global research program
evaluating the impacts of a climate driven fragmentation
on Arctic ecosystems and biodiversity.
Arctic and alpine environments have a harsh climate
and harbour simple ecosystems that are characterised
by a low primary productivity. Productivity gradients
in both latitude and altitude cause further declines in
species richness and ecological complexity. Arctic andalpine species communities are particularly susceptible
to ecological perturbations caused by global warming,
such as north- and upward expansions of boreal and sub-
alpine species. The Fennoscandian mountains contain
sub-Arctic and alpine environments that provide impor-
tant ecosystems services for diverse stakeholder groups.
Although north- and upward expansions of some species
is already ongoing, we have scant information of the
likely eects of such range shifts for resident species
communities. This project will apply concepts from
community assembly theory to empirical data to illumi-
nate the mechanisms by which we can expect climate
change to inuence biodiversity in the Fennoscandian
mountains. Empirical data will be collected directly
in the eld as well as derived from modern genomic
techniques.
We envision the project to work across broad taxo-
nomic scales. The project will include quantications
of community composition of vascular plants, arthro-
pods and vertebrates within altitude gradients along the
Fennoscandian mountains using established protocols.
These quantications will require extended periods of
eld sampling along the Swedish mountains in summer.
There will also be a signicant laboratory component,
were modern genetic barcoding techniques will be uti-
lized to quantify community composition of collected
samples, in particular for arthropods.
For this project, important qualications are prior expe-
rience of biodiversity sampling in demanding conditions,
a good ability to work in small groups in isolated envi-
ronments, as well as prior experience either with genetic
barcoding techniques or with eld identication of Arc-
tic/Alpine vascular ora. We are seeking an individual
that is highly self motivated and has a strong capacity to
work independently. Fluency in Swedish or Norwegian
is an asset, but not a requirement.
QUALIFICATIONS In order to meet the general en-
try requirements, the applicant must have completed a
second-cycle degree, completed courses equivalent to at
least 240 higher education credits, of which 60 credits
must be in the second cycle, or have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere.
In order to meet the specic entry requirements, the
general syllabus for doctoral studies in the eld of Sys-
tematics and Evolution stipulates that applicants must
have completed a research degree (e.g. Master' ^As), or
have passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological stud-
ies, including an approved independent project of at
least 30 hp at advanced level (examensarbete) within
systematics and evolution, ecology, population genetics,
bioinformatics or a similar subject. Applicants who have
in principle acquired the corresponding competence in60 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Sweden, or abroad, are also qualied. Only a person
who will be or has already been admitted to a third-cycle
program may be appointed to a doctoral studentship.
The primary assessment criteria in appointing a doc-
toral student should be the capacity to benet from the
training.
The qualication requirements must be met by the dead-
line for applications.
CONTACT For more information, please contact
Fredrik Dalerum, telephone: +34 664 170 144,
fredrik.dalerum@zoologi.su.se. Further information
about the position can be obtained from Love Dalen,
telephone: +46 8 5195 4281, love.dalen@nrm.se.
HOW TO APPLY Applications should be done us-
ing Stockholm University's online application sys-
tem. Please follow the link below to obtain fur-
ther information about how to write your appli-
cation and how to access the online application
system: http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-
su/phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=4509&rmlang=UK Love
Dal en <Love.Dalen@nrm.se >
TexasAMU ViralEvolution
The Labont e viral ecology lab at Texas A&M University
at Galveston is looking for two motivated students to
pursue graduate studies (one MSc and one PhD) in
the department of Marine Biology through the Marine
Biology Interdisciplinary Program (MARB-IDP). Stu-
dents will work on research projects related to virus
evolution, virus-host interactions, and characterization
the role of viruses in marine (surface and subseaoor)
environments.
Interested students should contact Dr. Jessica Labont e
(labontej@tamug.edu <mailto:labontej@tamug.edu >)
with their curriculum vitae and a cover letter presenting
themselves and their interests in viral ecology research
prior to submitting an application. The deadline to
apply for the MARB-IDP program is February 15, 2018.
Applications from women, military veterans, individuals
with disabilities, and members of other traditionally
underrepresented groups are encouraged.
Jessica Labont e jAssistant Professor Department of
Marine BiologyjTexas A&M University at Galveston
http://www.tamug.edu P.O. Box 1675, OCSB Room
267jGalveston, TX 77554
Ph: 409.740.4921 jlabontej@tamug.eduCatherine Risley <c.risley@tamu.edu >
TexasAM VeterinaryMed
ComparativeEvolGenomics
PhD Student Position Open at Texas A&M College of
Veterinary Medicine
Dear All,
There is a PhD student position available in Compar-
ative Evolutionary Genomics at Texas A&M Univer-
sity College of Veterinary Medicine. We have multiple
projects involving the analysis of whole genome and
other data in the lab of Dr. Leif Andersson. This stu-
dent will be primarily involved in population genomics
of the Atlantic herring (Clupea harengus). Schools of
Atlantic herring can contain billions of individuals, and
this is one of the most numerous vertebrates on Earth.
In previous work we have shown that Atlantic herring
is an excellent model to explore the genetic basis of
ecological adaptation and the action of natural selection
in natural populations (see eLife: PMID: 27138043 and
PMID: 28665273; PNAS: PMID: 28389569). In this
project, we will study the genetic organization of major
histocompatibility genes, to which extent MHC genes
contribute to ecological adaptation. The MHC class
I and class II genes are among the most polymorphic
genes in vertebrate genomes, a polymorphism main-
tained by balancing selection. This project will study
the evolution of MHC polymorphism in a species with
an enormous census population size and in which genetic
drift has a negligible eect on allele frequencies.
Strong candidates will have a background in evolution-
ary biology and genetics and be prepared to exam-
ine large datasets using bioinformatic and computa-
tional biology techniques involving short-read sequences,
RNAseq and methylomic data. The starting date is
exible (any time during spring and summer of 2018).
Review of applications will start immediately and the
positions will remain open until a suitable candidate
has been found.
Interested candidates are encouraged to submit a let-
ter of explaining their background and career plans,
accompanied by a C.V. and a description of relevant un-
dergraduate experience and coursework to Dr. Brian W.
Davis (bdavis@cvm.tamu.edu) at Texas A&M Univer-
sity. Dr. Davis will also be attending the International
Plant & Animal Genome XXVI conference January 13-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 61
17, 2018 in San Diego, CA if individuals would like to
discuss graduate student opportunities in the lab.
Best regards,
Dr. Leif Andersson
Professor, Animal Genomics
Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas, USA
Professor, Functional Genomics
Uppsala University, Sweden
\Davis, Brian" <BDavis@cvm.tamu.edu >
TrentU Canada BlackBearGenomics
PhD Opportunity in Black Bear Ecology and Genomics
?C Trent University/Ministry of Natural Resources and
Forestry
Description Graduate assistantship focused on the ecol-
ogy and evolution of black bears - we are seeking a highly
motivated person to pursue a PhD degree in the Environ-
mental and Life Sciences Program at Trent University in
Peterborough, Ontario, Canada. The graduate project
will combine ecological and genomic datasets to address
basic and applied research questions broadly focused on
the distribution, abundance and evolutionary history of
black bears in Ontario. The successful applicant will
be expected to become familiar with and apply state-of-
the-art statistical and genomic approaches and will have
considerable responsibility and freedom to formulate and
address basic and applied research questions grounded
in ecological and evolutionary theory. The successful
applicant will be expected to assist in eldwork to col-
lect samples. Further, this project will have a major lab
component that will be directed by the student, under
supervision. The research is expected to have direct ap-
plied relevance to management of black bears within the
province of Ontario. The student will be co-advised by
Dr. Christopher Kyle of Trent University and Dr. Joe
Northrup, Research Scientist with the Ontario Ministry
of Natural Resources and Forestry within the shared
Natural Resources DNA Proling and Forensic Centre
(www.nrdpfc.ca) facilities at Trent University.
Requirements M.Sc. degree in ecology, wildlife, biology
or related eld is required but exceptional past expe-
rience may be considered in place of a M.Sc. degree.
Applicants must meet the minimum entrance require-
ments for the Environmental & Life Sciences graduate
program. Desired qualications include a GPA >3.5(4.0 scale). A strong background in ecology and/or evo-
lutionary biology, demonstrated analytical capabilities,
and passion for wildlife research are required. Strong
quantitative, writing, and oral communication skills
are also required. The strongest applicants will have
demonstrated experience with programming languages
commonly used for statistical and scientic applications
(e.g., R and Python), and familiarity with geospatial
software (e.g., ArcMap, QGIS).
Application instructions Initially, all applications are
to be sent as follows. Please email a cover letter de-
scribing how you meet the above qualications, current
CV, unocial transcripts, scientic writing sample and
contact info for ' ~A3 references as a single attachment
to Joe Northrup at joseph.northrup@ontario.ca. The
successful applicant is expected to begin in fall, 2018.
Application deadline is January 15, 2018 but review of
applications will begin immediately and continue until
a suitable candidate is found. Once a successful appli-
cant has been determined a formal application to the
University is required.
Canadian candidates will be given preference, but qual-
ied international students who are eligible for interna-
tional funding opportunities should apply. There are
also a limited number of international tuition fee waivers
available on a competitive basis.
Additional Information: The Natural Resources DNA
Proling and Forensic Centre (NRDPFC) is located
within the Trent University' ^As DNA Building (Peter-
borough, Ontario, Canada). We have separate genomic
DNA and DNA cloning laboratories for molecular work
and also an automation laboratory for high throughput
sample preparation. Our facility also includes access
to a bio-containment Level II lab for processing poten-
tially infectious tissues and an Indigenous Pathogen
Containment Level III (IPCL 3) laboratory located in
the DNA building that is certied for several indigenous
pathogens. Peterborough is a vibrant community a 1.5
hour drive from Toronto and the Pearson International
Airport (http://www.peterborough.ca/Living.htm).
Christopher Kyle <christopherkyle@trentu.ca >
UAkron SexChromEvolution
Funding for a PhD student to study the evolution of
sex chromosomes in crustaceans. We seek a student in-
terested in bioinformatics to study sex chromosome evo-
lution in androdioecious branchiopod crustaceans. We62 EvolDir January 1, 2018
have whole genome sequence data, including sequencing
of the sex chromosome, that need to be analyzed to test
hypotheses of the evolution of sex chromosomes in these
shrimp. We seek a student with good problem solving
ability and programing experience in C++. Minimally
the candidate should at least have some programming
experience and be willing to learn C++. Funding is
for 5 years (teaching assistantship) and includes both a
stipend and tuition remission. Interested parties should
contact Dr. Stephen C. Weeks (scw@uakron.edu or
330-972-6954). Visit http://blogs.uakron.edu/weeks/
for more information about these crustaceans.
Applications should be submitted by Jan. 15th,
2018 for full consideration and can be uploaded
at http://www.uakron.edu/ib/academics/ib-admission-
requirements.dot .Interested students should contact Dr.
Weeks to receive information on application procedures
before applying online.
\Weeks,Stephen C" <scw@uakron.edu >
UAlabama BeeGenomics
The Lozier Lab (lozierlab.ua.edu) at The University of
Alabama, Dept. of Biological Sciences, is recruiting
a highly motivated graduate students to start in the
Fall 2018 semester. Students would work on projects
related to ongoing NSF-funded studies of bumble bee
population genomics to uncover signatures of adaptative
and demographic processes within and among species.
Students would specically be working to generate and
analyze population-level whole genome resequencing
data across multiple species and broad environmental
gradients at a large geographic scale, and could also
be involved in sequencing and assembly of reference
genomes from new bumble bee species using long-read
sequencing technologies.
Students would have the opportunity to collaborate
with project collaborators across institutions, and to
integrate phenotypic data, including physiology and
morphology, into genomic analyses.
Students with an interest in population genet-
ics/genomics should contact Je Lozier (jlozier@ua.edu),
with a brief statement of interest, a resume/CV, and
an informal academic history (e.g., GPAs, GREs, and
relevant coursework list, etc.).
The University of Alabama is the agship campus of
the University System of Alabama, with an enrollmentof over 35,000 students.The University is committed
to achieving excellence as one of the country's primary
centers of research and education. It is located in the
vibrant college town of Tuscaloosa, AL, which boasts
many cultural and athletic activities. The campus also
benets from the close proximity to the Birmingham
metropolitan community.
The University of Alabama is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and mi-
norities are encouraged to apply.
Je Lozier Associate Professor Biological Sciences
The University of Alabama Oce 205-348-2754
jlozier@ua.edujlozierlab.ua.edu
jlozier@ua.edu
UBarcelona EvoDevo
Need urgent candidates for PREDOC FPU-fellowship
call (ASAP, now open) to work on #HeartEvoDevo
#GeneLoss #Oikopleura
Ca nestro's lab, Department of Genetics, University of
Barcelona
https://goo.gl/0ZaDm0 oikocris@gmail.com
UBath ExperimentalEvolution
Fully funded 4-year PhD position in experimental evo-
lution at the University of Bath (UK).
Application deadline: 11/01/2018
Apply here: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=84040 The Role of
Environmental Change in Gene Regulatory Network
Evolution
Supervisors: Dr Tiany Taylor <http://-
www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
tiany-taylor/ >; Prof Laurence Hurst <http:/-
/www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
laurence hurst/ >
How does novelty arise in evolution? Does environmen-
tal change drive genome complexity, and if so how?
These are central questions in evolutionary biology, andJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 63
they are the questions that drive research in our lab.
Using a combination of molecular genetic manipula-
tions/analyses and experimental evolution, within the
context of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) you will
explore whether more complex GRNs promote survival
and create opportunities for innovation in changeable en-
vironments. This project will conduct experiments with
a genetically modied common soil bacterium that has
had the 'master switch' of the agellar network deleted.
Firstly, it will address the role that gene duplication
plays in the evolution of complex gene networks. It
will do this by observing the divergence between dupli-
cated genes from a dierent network that is capable of
'mending' agellar function (1). Secondly, it will test the
hypothesis that more complex networks provide a tness
benet in less predictable environments (2). It will do
this by using genetically manipulated bacteria with step-
wise increases in network complexity and evolve them
in static and changing environments. Lastly, it will look
across a range of bacteria of the same species, which
inhabit dierent environments, to link life-histories with
network architecture (3).
Location: This project will be conducted under the di-
rect supervision of Dr Tiany Taylor with co-supervision
from Prof Laurence Hurst, and based at the Depart-
ment of Biology and Biochemistry at the University
of Bath (UK) in the new Milner Centre for Evolu-
tion (http://www.bath.ac.uk/groups/milner-centre-for-
evolution/). The Milner Centre is a new research centre
focused on doing ground breaking research that ad-
dresses major questions in evolutionary biology. The
Milner Genomics Centre provides on-site facilities and
expertise for genome sequencing and analysis for evo-
lution research, and the world-class researchers at the
centre creates a vibrant research culture that ensures
support and training for the next generation of evolu-
tionary biologist.
Requirements: This is a fully-funded PhD studentship.
We are looking for a biology graduate who has a strong
interest in genetics and evolution. Some practical ex-
perience in microbiology and molecular techniques is
highly desired but training will be provided. The suc-
cessful candidate will be enthusiastic, highly motivated,
independent, have experience in microbiology, molecular
biology or evolutionary biology (or a combination), and
have a relevant degree. The applicant must meet the
standard University of Bath English language require-
ments.
Planned start date: 1 October 2018.
For informal enquiries, please contact Tiany Taylor
<T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk >Funding notes: Funding is available for up to 4 years
for an excellent UK/EU student. The studentship will
include Home/EU tuition fees and a stipend of 14,553
(2017/18 rate). Applicants who are classed as Overseas
for fee-paying purposes are not eligible to receive the
funding.
Tiany Taylor <T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk >
UBern SpeciationGenomics
PhD position:
Genomics of speciation of rodents and their microbes
Applications are invited for a PhD position on the ge-
nomics of speciation and hybridization in rodents and
the feedback on associated microbes. Research will
deepen our comparative analyses of dierent stages of
speciation in Microtus voles. This will contribute to
answering fundamental questions in evolutionary biol-
ogy such as: What is the importance of adaptive and
neutral processes during evolutionary divergence? How
tight is the association between fast-evolving microor-
ganisms and processes of speciation in their hosts? Does
divergence and diversity of hosts limit or expand the
evolutionary scope of associated microorganisms? We
will address this through comparative analyses of vole
and RNA virus genomes and of microbial communities
based on high-throughput sequence data from several
Microtus hybrid zones with dierent levels of divergence.
You will work closely with a second PhD student on
dierent aspects of the system (host, microbiome, virus,
selection, demography, population structure, etc.).
I am looking for a skilled, creative and highly-motivated
candidate who is able to work independently and in a
team. You must have a solid background in evolutionary
biology, and practical experience with bioinformatics ap-
plications and analysis methods in population genetics
and/or phylogenetics. Much of the work will concern
the processing and analysis of large genomic data sets
generated by you. Experience with molecular laboratory
work or eldwork on small mammals is a plus but not
essential. A Master degree in a relevant eld and a
valid driver's license is required. The project includes
short periods of eldwork, and the writing of several
manuscripts for leading scientic journals.
We oer a very stimulating, multi-national research com-
munity with excellent infrastructure. We are also part of
the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB) which broad-64 EvolDir January 1, 2018
ens the opportunities for further training beyond courses
in various doctoral programs. The working language
in our institute is English. Some knowledge of German
or French is benecial for living in Switzerland but it
is not essential. Bern and Switzerland are consistently
ranked among the places with the highest quality of life.
The position is funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation for a maximum of four years. The antici-
pated starting date is Spring 2018. Please send your
application as a single (!) pdf le to Prof. Gerald Heckel:
gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch. To be considered, the pdf
must include a letter describing your past research ex-
perience and particular skills and motivation for this
position (max. 2 pages), the abstract of your Master
thesis, a CV, and contact details of 2-3 referees. Re-
view of applications will begin Januar 8 2018 and will
continue until the positions are lled.
Prof. Dr. Gerald Heckel Computational and Molec-
ular Population Genetics (CMPG) Institute of
Ecology and Evolution University of Bern Baltzer-
strasse 6 CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland Tel: +41
31 631 30 29 Email: gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch
http://www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm \ger-
ald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch" <gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch >
UBielefeld BehaviouralEvolution
PhD position in Behavioural Ecology
A PhD position in behavioural ecology is available at
the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld University, in the
Department of Animal Behaviour (with Prof. Oliver
Krueger, see http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/ an-
imalbehaviour). The position runs from early 2018 to
2021 and is funded by the German Research Foundation
(DFG) within the recently approved collaborative re-
search centre (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthe-
sis of Individualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and
Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche
Construction (NC3).
The aim of the PhD project (sub-project C03 of the
collaborative research centre) is to conduct a eld study
on a common buzzard (Buteo buteo) population and
to test for consequences of niche choice and niche con-
struction in this species. Making full use of a thirty-year
data set and enlarging it, the PhD student will look
at the tness consequences of nest site choice and nestconstruction with regard to chick growth rate, blood
parasite load (Leucocytozoon) and chick survival. It
is planned to also conduct eld experiments where the
amount of nest decoration with green plant material will
be manipulated to test for anti-parasitic eects of this
material. The ensuing tness consequences for buzzard
chicks will be monitored using lifelong wing-tags and
survival and recruitment data will be collected. So far,
over 2500 individual buzzards have already been tted
with lifelong wing tags and the resulting data set will
be used.
The collaborative research centre: The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 9 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of Muenster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
- Research tasks (90%):
- Conducting eld work on a buzzard population from
late March to early July each year
- Participation in chick-ringing and the measurement of
phenotypic traits from middle of May to early July
- Statistical analyses of complex and long-term data sets
- Collaboration with other research groups in the re-
search centre
- Writing scientic publications
- Organizational tasks in the research group and research
centre (10%)
Applicant's prole
We seek a bright and highly motivated student with
- a university degree in a relevant discipline with special-
ization in behavioural ecology, ornithology, population
ecology,
- experience with eld work, preferably in birds of prey
- experience with statistical software, preferably R
- interest in both behavioural and life history questions,
- ability to work both independently and as part of a
team, and
- excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 65
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage:
- papers in peer-reviewed international journals,
- experience in tree-climbing with rope techniques
- experience with large-scale research projects.
Remuneration
Salary will be paid according to Remuneration level 13
(65%) of the Wage Agreement for Public Service in the
Federal States (TV-L).
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attrac-
tive internal and external training and further training
programmes. Employees have the opportunity to use
a variety of health, counselling, and prevention pro-
grammes. Bielefeld University places great importance
on a work-family balance for all its
employees.
Application procedure
To apply, please provide: (i) a letter of motivation in-
cluding a statement of your research interests and skills
and experience relevant to the position; (ii) a CV in-
cluding publication list; (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be emailed as a
single PDF le to: oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de. The
application deadline is January 7th 2018 and interviews
will take place shortly thereafter. After the decision, the
position should start as soon as possible. For further
information on the project and the department, please
contact Oliver Kruger oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de
with any informal inquiries.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUCalifornia Merced
InsectMicrobeSymbioses
Insect-Microbe Symbioses and Evolution Graduate Stu-
dent Opportunity at University of California at Merced
The Bennett Laboratory in the Life and Environmental
Sciences Unit at the University of California, Merced is
seeking an exceptional Ph.D. student. The student will
participate in on-going and emerging areas of research
related to insect-microbial symbioses and evolution. The
student can develop an original research project or push
forward projects that are already established in the
group. Preference will be given to an applicant with
B.Sc. or M.Sc. in microbiology, entomology, evolution,
or genetics.
Areas of active research in the Bennett lab include,
but are not limited to: 1) Comparative genomics and
molecular evolution of bacterial symbioses in sap-feeding
insects. 2) Insect-microbe cellular and metabolic mainte-
nance and integration. 3) The role of insect microbiomes
in shaping endemic Hawaiian insect evolution.
Student support will include full tuition waiver, stipend,
and Teaching Assistantship. To indicate your interest,
please send 1) a cover letter with a brief description
of past experience and reasons for interest in the po-
sition, 2) a curriculum vitae, and 3) contact informa-
tion of three references to Gordon Bennett at gben-
nett2@ucm.edu. More information about this position
and research in the Bennett lab is currently available at
Bennett Lab Website (https://www.ctahr.hawaii.edu/-
BennettG/)
Ocial applications (http://-
graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/prospective-students/-
how-apply) for graduate education in the Quantitative
and Environmental Systems Groups at UC Merced
(http://les.ucmerced.edu/) should be submitted to
the Graduate Division before the deadline of January
15, 2018. Applicants are also encouraged to apply
for university-wide fellowship programs (http://-
graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/nancial-support) for
which they are eligible, most of which are due on or
before January 15, 2018.
The University of California, Merced is centrally lo-
cated with easy access to the Sierra Nevada Moun-
tains, Yosemite National Park, the San Francisco Bay66 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Area, and the California coastline. The Bennett lab
also maintains active research projects in the Hawai-
ian Archipelago, oering exceptional opportunities for
natural ecosystems.
U.C. Merced is an armative action/equal opportunity
employer with a strong institutional commitment to the
achievement of diversity among its faculty, sta and
students.
Links:
1. LES = http://les.ucmerced.edu/ 2. Ocial
applications http://graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/-
prospective-students/how-apply 3. University-
wide fellowship programs http://-
graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/nancial-support
4. Current Bennett Lab Website = https:/-
/www.ctahr.hawaii.edu/BennettG/ gben-
nett2@ucmerced.edu
UCambridge NeuroEvoDevo
PHD: NEURO-EVO-DEVO We invite applications for
a funded PhD position in the Department of Zoology in
Central Cambridge on Downing Street with Dr Stephen
Montgomery's research group.
Developmental basis of mushroom body expansion in
Heliconius butteries
Project summary: Mushroom bodies (MBs) are the
most enigmatic structures in the insect brain. They
have 'higher order' functions, integrating sensory infor-
mation and storing memories of past experience. MBs
share a conserved ground plan, but their size and struc-
ture varies extensively across species. MB volume in
Heliconius butteries are among the highest across in-
sects, 3-4 times larger than typical for Lepidoptera,
including their most closely related genera in the wider
tribe of Heliconiini. This provides a novel system for in-
vestigating the developmental mechanisms that control
neural proliferation and brain component size. However,
nothing is known about the developmental changes that
have produced such a dramatic expansion.
What the student will be doing: The project will involve
core laboratory, microscopy and neuroanatomical tech-
niques, insect rearing and experimental manipulation.
You will construct the rst time course of Heliconius
brain development, from late larvae through pupation
to adulthood.Using immunocytochemistry and confocal imaging you
will determine key properties of MB growth trajectories,
providing a template for developing hypotheses of when
and how MB development in Heliconius diverged from
related genera.
By adopting an evo-devo approach you will then con-
duct a series of comparative studies across Heliconiini
to assess how increases in neuron number are produced,
considering four potential mechanisms: i) an increase
in the number of neural progenitor cells, ii) accelerated
cell-cycle rates during neurogenesis, iii) an extension
in the overall duration of neurogenesis including the
possibility of adult neurogenesis, iv) reduced or delayed
patterns of apoptosis among neural progenitor cells.
Finally, once key periods of developmental divergence
have been identied between Heliconius and related
genera, you will perform a second series of analyses to
identify divergent patterns of gene regulation and ex-
pression as part of a project that aims to identify the
genetic basis of MB expansion.
Some eld/insectary work in Panama may be neces-
sary/desirable. The studentship is funded by the Euro-
pean Research Council for 3.5 years. A student stipend
of pounds 14,553 per annum, and tuition fees will be
oered to a successful candidate.
FUNDING: The studentship is funded by the Euro-
pean Research Council for 3.5 years. A student stipend
of pounds 14,553 per annum, and tuition fees will be
oered to a successful candidate.
FURTHER INFORMATION: https://-
www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/phd-and-
mphil-studentships /developmental-basis-of-mushroom-
body-expansion-in-heliconius-butteri es APPLICA-
TION DETAILS: Formal applications are welcome until
27th April.
Shortlisted candidates will be interviewed in early
May and a decision will be made soon after. In-
formal enquiries to shm37@cam.ac.uk are welcome.
For more details see: https://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
study/postgraduate RESEARCH GROUP: http://-
www.shmontgomery.co.uk Dr. Stephen Montgomery
NERC Independent Research Fellow Dept. of Zoology,
University of Cambridge Downing St. Cambridge, CB2
3EJ Tel: 01223336678 Email: shm37@cam.ac.uk Twit-
ter: @eohomo Departmental webpage Personal webpage
Stephen Montgomery <shm37@cam.ac.uk >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 67
UDenver EvolutionAnimalBehavior
Graduate Positions in Behavioral Ecology in the
Tinghitella Lab at the University of Denver.
The Tinghitella lab at the University of Denver (https:/-
/tinghitellalab.weebly.com) is recruiting motivated new
graduate students to begin in the fall of 2018. Work in
the lab centers on the roles of ecology and behavior in
(rapid) evolutionary change. We mix eld and labora-
tory work to understand the forces that shape diversity
in animal communication and mating systems. Recently
we've been thinking a lot about how human impacts
alter the mating environment and the evolutionary im-
plications of those perturbations. Graduate students
will be supported through teaching assistantships (2
years MS and 5 years PhD). I am specically recruiting
students interested in working on Pacic eld crickets.
Graduate students will be expected to develop their
own projects within the scope of the lab, but topics
are open. Recent work in the eld cricket system has
addressed rapid evolution of sexual signals, plasticity
in mate choice, and eects of anthropogenic noise on
acoustically communicating invertebrates.
Please contact Robin Tinghitella,
robin.tinghitella@du.edu, for more information.
Additional information about our graduate program
and DU's vibrant group of Organismal Biologists can
be found at https://www.du.edu/nsm/departments/-
biologicalsciences/degreeprograms/phd.html and
https://sites.google.com/site/duecoevo/home. The
deadline for applications to the graduate program in
Biological Sciences is January 1, 2018.
Robin Tinghitella <Robin.Tinghitella@du.edu >
UGlasgow CancerEvolution
4-year PhD studentship: Algorithmic analysis of clonal
evolution and therapeutic resistance in pancreatic can-
cers
Web: https://www.gla.ac.uk/research/-
ourresearchenvironment/prs/kelvinsmith/-
shortlistedscholarshipprojectsfor201819/-seyuanpancreaticcancer/#d.en.562042 Keywords:
machine learning, statistical modelling, cancer genomics,
metabolomics, pancreatic cancer
Project Summary Pancreatic cancer is the 4th leading
cause of death in western societies, and predicted to
be the second within a decade. Genomic sequencing of
~520 pancreatic cancer cases, by the Glasgow pancreatic
cancer team, has provided the foundation to understand
tumour biology and identify improved therapeutic op-
tions for pancreatic cancer, in which there has been
minimal improvement in outcomes for 40 years.
These data suggest that many patients develop resis-
tance with therapy either by selecting for resistant clones
within the tumour, or through the rapid acquisition of
secondary mutations. Understanding cancer evolution
and the resulting subclonal architecture of cells within
a tumour is thus essential to developing the next gen-
eration of therapeutics. This proposal aims to develop
machine learning algorithms that reveal patterns of
cancer evolution at multiple 'Vomics levels (genomics,
transcriptomics, and metabolomics) and link these with
therapy to identify mechanisms of resistance and inform
combinatorial therapeutic strategies.
The project will be based on a solid foundation of al-
gorithmic and experimental advances in genomics [1],
transcriptomics [2] and metabolomics [3] by the team
members. The candidate will have the opportunity to
develop highly sophisticated probabilistic models and
test them on large scale patient data, including data
from ongoing clinical trials as part of the Precision-Panc
project.
Reference: [1]. Yuan, K., et al. (2015) BitPhylogeny: a
probabilistic framework for reconstructing intra-tumor
phylogenies. Genome Biology, 16(1), p. 36. [2]. Bailey,
P. et al. (2016) Genomic analyses identify molecular
subtypes of pancreatic cancer. Nature, 531(7592), pp.
47-52. [3]. van Der Hooft et al (2016) Topic modeling for
untargeted substructure exploration in metabolomics.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the
United States of America, 113(48), pp. 13738-13743.
Project Team The successful candidate will be jointly
supervised by Drs Ke Yuan and Simon Rogers at the
School of Computing Science, Prof. Andrew Biankin,
Drs Peter Bailey and David Chang at the Institute of
Cancer Sciences.
The candidate will be primarily based in the Inference,
Data, and Algorithms (IDA) section at the School of
Computing Science where he or she will be benet from
interactions with experts in machine learning and sta-
tistical inference. In addition, the School is an integral
part of the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science68 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Alliance (SICSA), which organise events in its Data
Science section.
The candidate will also be a member of the Translational
Research Centre at Institute of Cancer Sciences. This
will enable the candidate to interact with leading biol-
ogists and clinicians from the greater cancer research
community in Glasgow. In addition, the candidate
will have the opportunity to collaborate in large inter-
national (International Cancer Genome Consortium),
UK (Precision-Panc) and Scottish consortiums (Scottish
Genome Partnership).
Person Specication This studentship is open to can-
didates of any nationality 'V UK, EU or International.
Applicants should demonstrate the following: - Aca-
demic qualications: Undergraduate Degree - 2:1/1;
Master' ^As Degree (Desired) - Pass /Merit /Distinction
- Experience: We welcome candidates from computa-
tional backgrounds (i.e. machine learning, statistics, and
related elds) who are interest in developing methods
for biomedical problems. Candidates with experimental
backgrounds (i.e. molecular biology, systems biology
and related elds) who want to move into computational
biology are encouraged to apply as well. Previous expe-
rience with analysing sequencing data is a plus. - Skills:
Good programing skills in Python or R.
Application Process In the rst instance, prospec-
tive applicants should contact Dr Ke Yuan,
ke.yuan@glasgow.ac.uk to discuss your eligibility.
Applicants may submit applications up until the
application deadline of 12 noon, Friday 12 January
2018. The following documentation will be required
from applicants if they are invited to submit a full
application: - LKAS Interdisciplinary Scholarships
Application Form - 2 references in support of your
application. (The references relevant to the application
for admission to Glasgow for PhD study may be
submitted to this process 'V they do not need to be
tailored to this process.)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUGothenburg 2 PlantSystematics
Within the Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre <
https://ggbc.gu.se/ >, (GGBC) University of Gothen-
burg, Sweden, two PhD positions are open for ap-
plication November 1st, 2017 until January 15th,
2018. The positions are part of the EU Interna-
tional Training Network programme PlantID <http://-
www.plantid.uio.no/ >, which announces 15 PhD stu-
dent positions <http://www.plantid.uio.no/jobs/ >
simultaneously. We seek highly motivated students to
tackle taxonomic problems in the owering plant genus
*Silene* ranging from polyploidy, species delimitations,
and it relations to conservation. The positions start in
April 1st, 2018, and are fully funded including salary
and social security benets for four years. To be eligible
to apply, you must not have been a resident in Sweden
more than 12 months the last three years. See the below
links for more details:
- Species, a taxonomic category distinct from the lineage
concept? A case study on species delimitation in Silene
sect. Dipterospermae in Southern Africa <http://-
www.plantid.uio.no/jobs/phd-fellowship-14.html >
- Polyploid phylogenetics under the multi-species coales-
cent<http://www.plantid.uio.no/jobs/phd-fellowship-
01.html >
Supervisors:
Bengt Oxelman <https://www.gu.se/omuniversitetet/-
personal/?userId=xoxebe >
Christine Bacon < https://bioenv.gu.se/-
personal?userId=xbacoc >
{ Christine D. Bacon
Assistant Professor University of Gothenburg Gothen-
burg, Sweden
Gothenburg Global Biodiversity Centre Box 461, SE
405-30 G oteborg, Sweden
Associate Researcher Universidad CES Medellin, Colom-
bia
Christine Bacon <christinedbacon@gmail.com >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 69
UGreifswald BiologicalAdaptation
University of Greifswald, Zoological Institute and Mu-
seum
PhD position in Animal Ecology
Application deadline: 19.01.2018
The Zoological Institute and Museum at the University
of Greifswald invites applications for a PhD position
within the Research Training Group RESPONSE:
https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/forschung/dfg-
graduiertenkollegs/research-training-group-2010/job-
oers/ . Job oers - Fakult at - Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-
Universit at ... <https://biologie.uni-greifswald.de/-
forschung/dfg-graduiertenkollegs/research-training-
group-2010/job-oers/ >biologie.uni-greifswald.de
The Research Training Group \Biological responses to
novel and changing environments - RESPONSE" (RTG
2010), funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG ...
Starting date: April 1st 2018.
Duration: 3 years.
Salary: German salary scale (TV-L 13, 65%).
Thesis topics: Genetic and environmental eects on the
morphology, physiology and behaviour of a European
buttery.
Background: In holometabolous insects, adult character-
istics are largely determined during their early stages of
life (eggs, larvae). Accordingly, we recently found that
Pieris napi butteries exposed to a high temperature as
pre-adults showed smaller wings, higher wing loading,
and a change in the ratio between their forewing and
hindwing when adults. Interestingly, these eects varied
with the latitudinal origin of butteries. This suggests
that early thermal conditions may determine the ability
of adult butteries to disperse, and that these eects
vary between populations. However, such changes in
ight ability are likely to generate trade-os with other
energy-demanding functions (e.g. physiology, thermal
tolerance), which may ultimately limit the dispersal
potential of butteries.
Goals of the project: Here, we will investigate plastic
and genetic variation in the morphology (wing character-
istics, pigmentation, body mass, thorax musculature),
physiology (oxidative status, immune response, lipid
composition, cuticle desiccation resistance, pigmenta-tion) and behaviour (ight characteristics) of the butter-
y Pieris napi exposed to dierent thermal regimes as
pre-adults. We will use replicated populations of P. napi
across a latitudinal gradient across Europe (i.e.from
warm to cold environments) to establish the interrela-
tions between these parameters and to examine their
heritability under variable environmental conditions.
Specically, we will test the following hypotheses: (1)
morphological, physiological and behavioural character-
istics are inter-related; (2) the eects of early thermal
conditions on the morphology, the physiology and the
behaviour of butteries vary with the latitudinal ori-
gin of butteries, (3) ight ability determined by early
thermal conditions is negatively related to the thermal
tolerance of adults, (4) heritability of the investigated
traits is not signicantly aected by thermal conditions
(parent-ospring regressions will be used to estimate her-
itability). Most of the project will be conducted in cap-
tivity but will also involve some eldwork. This project
will be conducted in collaboration with research part-
ners at the Universities of Greifswald, Koblenz-Landau,
Ljubliana and Amsterdam.
Required skills:
§Strong background in behavioural and evolutionary
ecology
§Interest, knowledge and previous experience with bio-
chemical analyses
§Knowledge in experimental design, data handling and
statistical analyses
§Interest in entomology and lepidopterology
§Expertise in eld methods (preferentially with insects
and butteries)
§Interest in ight biomechanics
§Good command of English; basic knowledge in German
would be an advantage
§Organizational skills, willingness and ability to work
in a team
To apply, please visit our website:
https://www.uni-greifswald.de/universitaet/-
information/stellenausschreibungen/oeentliche-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-personal/-
graduiertenkolleg-rtg-2010-17wi23/ Graduiertenkol-
leg RTG 2010 17/Wi23 - Universit at Greifswald
< https://www.uni-greifswald.de/universitaet/-
information/stellenausschreibungen/oeentliche-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-personal/-
graduiertenkolleg-rtg-2010-17wi23/ >
/70 EvolDir January 1, 2018
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHamburg SystematicsGastropods
Universit at Hamburg, Center of Natural History, invites
applications for a Research Associate for the project
\Exploring genomic methods for delimiting species in
radiations of terrestrial snails"
in accordance with Section 28 subsection 3 of
the Hamburg Higher Education Act (Hamburgisches
Hochschulgesetz, HmbHG). The position commences
earliest on 1.2.2018.
It is remunerated at the salary level TV-L 13 and calls
for 65 % of standard work hours per week*.
The xed-term nature of this contract is based upon
Section 2 of the Academic Fixed-Term Labor Contract
Act (Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz, WissZeitVG). The
term is xed for a period of 3 years.
The metropolis Hamburg is one of the most popular
cities in Europe and harbors one of the largest universi-
ties in Germany. The University aims to increase the
number of women in research and teaching and explicitly
encourages qualied women to apply. Equally qualied
female applicants will receive preference in accordance
with the Hamburg Equality Act (Hamburgisches Gleich-
stellungsgesetz, HmbGleiG).
Responsibilities: Duties include academic services in
the project named above. Research associates can also
pursue independent research and further academic qual-
ications.
Specic Duties: The doctoral student will study the evo-
lutionary history of land snail radiations and evaluate
and optimize dierent genomic approaches for delimit-
ing closely related species, both with regard to labora-
tory and analytical methods, within the framework of
the DFG SPP 1991 Taxon-OMICS (see http://taxon-
omics.de/). Field work and the conservation of material
also pertains to the duties.
Requirements: A university degree in a relevant eld.
The candidate should be experienced with molecular
biological methods and preferentially also with \next
generation sequencing" techniques and data analyses or
a programming language (Perl, Python, R, etc.). Theproject requires analytical thinking and good English
skills (German language skills are not absolutely neces-
sary, the working language is English).
Severely disabled applicants will receive preference over
equally qualied non-disabled applicants.
For further information, please contact Prof. Bernhard
Hausdorf.
Applications should include a cover letter detailing
your research interests and experience, curriculum vi-
tae, and copies of degree certicates. The application
deadline is December 22, 2017. Please send applica-
tions as a single pdf le to: Prof. Bernhard Hausdorf,
hausdorf@zoologie.uni-hamburg.de.
{ Prof. Dr. Bernhard Hausdorf Abteilungsleiter
Malakologie Centrum f ur Naturkunde (CeNak)
- Center of Natural History Universit at Ham-
burg - Zoologisches Museum Martin-Luther-
King-Platz 3 20146 Hamburg - Germany P +49
40 42 838 2284 Email: hausdorf@zoologie.uni-
hamburg.de https://www.cenak.uni-hamburg.de/en/-
forschung/zoologie/malakologie/publikationen.html
\hausdorf@zoologie.uni-hamburg.de"
UIllinois FishEvolution
The Fuller lab at the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign is looking for motivated graduate students
interested in the evolution of shes. The Fuller lab
focuses on two broad topics: (a) speciation in sh as
a function of local adaptation, chromosomal rearrange-
ments, and community structure and (b) the evolution
of color patterns, color vision, and sexual selection in
dierent habitat types. We use a variety of approaches
(eldwork, lab experiments, sequencing, quantitative
genetics) in three main study systems: Lucania killi-
sh, darters, and largemouth bass. We are increasingly
moving into genomics. Find out more about what we
do at our website (http://beckyfullerlab.weebly.com/).
Students can apply through either the Program in Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Conservation(http://sib.illinois.edu/-
peec/) or the Department of Animal Biology grad
program (http://www.life.illinois.edu/animalbiology/-
graduate program.htm). Applications are due by De-
cember 15, 2017 for full consideration for graduate col-
lege fellowships and the deadline for general considera-
tion is January 1, 2018.
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign alsoJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 71
oers state-of-the-art research facilities in imaging, ge-
nomics, and engineering. Urbana-Champaign is a pleas-
ant, aordable, university town with good music and
restaurants. It has its own airport and is close to three
major U.S. cities (Chicago, Indianapolis, St. Louis).
The University of Illinois and the Fuller lab are commit-
ted to a diverse workplace, and prospective students of
all races, genders, and sexual orientations are encour-
aged to apply.
Email Becky Fuller (fuller@life.illinois.edu) for more
information.
fuller@life.illinois.edu
UIowa EvolutionaryBiology
A number of graduate student (Ph.D. or MS) positions|
are|available at the Department of Biology, University
of Iowa to study a variety of topics related to the Biol-
ogy of Stress Responses. Topics and Laboratories are
detailed below.
The Department of Biology provides the opportu-
nity for highly multidisciplinary training, with fac-
ulty with expertise in neurobiology, cellular and devel-
opmental biology, bioinformatics, genetics, genomics
and evolution, and research that covers all eukary-
otic model organisms. The University of Iowa is
located in Iowa City, a vibrant mid-sized city that
perennially ranks in the top 10 as a \Best Place to
Live" http://www.iowacityareadevelopment.com/live/-
rankings.aspx). It is the rst UNESCO City of Liter-
ature in the U.S. and hosts a wide variety of cultural,
artistic, and sporting events year-round.
|{ Topic: Evolution of Gene Regulatory Networks Con-
trolling Stress Responses in Commensal Yeast
Graduate student (Ph.D. or MS) positions|are|
available in|the laboratory of Dr. Bin Z. He (https://-
www.binhe-lab.org/). The Gene Regulatory Evolution
(GRE) lab is led by the newest member of the Biol-
ogy Department, Dr. Bin He, who recently nished his
postdoc at Harvard University and Princeton Univer-
sity. The GRE lab investigates the genetic basis for
the evolution of gene regulatory networks and how that
impacts the biology of the organism. In particular, we
focus on the networks controlling stress responses, which
are evolutionarily dynamic because species encounter
new environments constantly. Our previous work has
revealed an intriguing phenomenon of network expan-sion in a commensal yeast, C. glabrata, whose close
relatedness to the model species S. cerevisiae and yet
distinct ecology of commensalism make it an ideal sys-
tem to understand the evolution of stress responses. We
are currently working to extend our previous work in a
single starvation response to a broad array of starvation
and stress responses. The goal is to obtain a compre-
hensive map for multiple stress responses in this species
to understand the genetic mechanisms for adaptation.
Potential graduate students seeking to join the lab will
work closely with Bin to unravel the mystery of network
evolution, using cutting edge functional genomics, bio-
chemistry and bioinformatics tools. A high degree of
motivation and commitment and integrity in science are
expected. The GRE lab is aliated with the Depart-
ment of Biology (iBio; https://biology.uiowa.edu/ibio)
graduate program. |
Most Relevant Publications: - He, B.Z., Zhou, X., and
O'Shea, E.K. (2017). Evolution of reduced co- activator
dependence led to target expansion of a starvation re-
sponse pathway. eLife 6, e25157. For more information,
check https://www.binhe- lab.org or https://binhe.org
To apply please contact Bin Z. He (bin-he@uiowa.edu)
and send a cover letter with a brief summary of re-
search experience and interests, CV, and the contact
information for 3 referees.
|{ Josep M. Comeron (josep-comeron@uiowa.edu),
Veena Prahlad (veena-prahlad@uiowa.edu) and Bin He
(bin-he@uiowa.edu)
\Comeron, Josep M" <josep-comeron@uiowa.edu >
ULaval
SticklebackEvolutionaryGenomics
Ph.D. position: Evolutionary genomics in Stickleback
The joint Bernatchez's https://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/presentation.htm and Aubin-
Horth's http://wikiaubinhorth.ibis.ulaval.ca/Aubin-
Horth:Lab Members Labs at Universit e Laval (Qu ebec
City, Canada) https://www.ulaval.ca/en/research.html
are currently searching for a Ph.D. candidate to be
involved in our new research project:
Two sexes, one genome: source and consequences of
sexually antagonistic selection in Stickleback.
The basic overarching goal of this project is to gain
fundamental knowledge about the impact of intra-locus
sexual selection in animal populations in their natural72 EvolDir January 1, 2018
environment. Using the Threespine Stickleback in its
natural environment as a study system, we will test the
general hypothesis that dierentially expressed genes
between the two sexes are more subject to the eect
of sexually antagonistic selection than other genomic
regions, resulting in maintenance of superior genetic
diversity.
The specic objectives of the project are: 1: To quan-
tify the magnitude of the eect of sexually antagonistic
intra- locus selection by comparing allele frequencies
between males and females at three stages of life using
whole genome resequencing; 2: Quantify the dierential
gene expression between sexes at dierent life stages
by means of genome-wide RNAseq; 3: To test the hy-
pothesis that the relationship between the magnitude of
dierential gene expression and the intensity of sexually
antagonistic selection follows a bimodal \Twin Peaks"
pattern; 4: To test the hypothesis that allelic variation
of genes under sexually antagonistic selection aects
reproductive success in both sexes and link tness to
the functions of these genes.
Required Qualications: We are primarily searching for
a prospective candidate combining a solid background
in evolutionary biology, experience in eld and molecu-
lar work, demonstrated bioinformatics skills and being
familiar with scripting and programming. The ideal
candidate should also be familiar with analyses of popu-
lation data sets derived from whole genome resequencing
and transcriptomic proling.
We are looking for a candidate to join our team in early
May for the beginning of the rst eld season. Salary
established according to local University standards will
be provided during the whole course of the Ph.D.
Universit e Laval is located in beautiful and his-
toric Qu ebec City http://www.quebecregion.com/-
en/ surrounded by stunning nature per-
fect for any outdoor experience: http://-
parcmarin.qc.ca/ https://www.sepaq.com/pq/jac/
https://www.sepaq.com/pq/grj/
Universit e Laval also oers the lowest tuition fees
(2500 $/year) in North America.
While the University is francophone, PhD defense and
thesis can be done in English.
To apply, please send the following documents in
a consolidated single PDF le: a cover letter de-
scribing your research interests and qualications, a
complete CV, and names of three references by e-
mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Nadia.Aubin-
Horth@bio.ulaval.ca
Do not hesitate to contact us directly for any furtherdetails or questions.
Louis Bernatchez Canadian Research in Genomics and
Conservation of Aquatic Resources Institut de Biologie
Int egrative et des Syst emes, Pavillon Charles-Eugene
Marchand Universit e Laval Qu ebec, QC G1V 0A6
Canada Phone: 1 418 656-3402
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >
ULaval SticklebackGenomics
Ph.D. position: Evolutionary genomics in Stickleback
The joint Bernatchez's https://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/presentation.htm and Aubin-
Horth's http://wikiaubinhorth.ibis.ulaval.ca/Aubin-
Horth:Lab Members Labs at Universit e Laval (Qu ebec
City, Canada) https://www.ulaval.ca/en/research.html
are currently searching for a Ph.D. candidate to be
involved in our new research project:
Two sexes, one genome: source and consequences of
sexually antagonistic selection in Stickleback.
The basic overarching goal of this project is to gain
fundamental knowledge about the impact of intra-locus
sexual selection in animal populations in their natural
environment. Using the Threespine Stickleback in its
natural environment as a study system, we will test the
general hypothesis that dierentially expressed genes
between the two sexes are more subject to the eect
of sexually antagonistic selection than other genomic
regions, resulting in maintenance of superior genetic
diversity.
The specic objectives of the project are: 1: To quan-
tify the magnitude of the eect of sexually antagonistic
intra- locus selection by comparing allele frequencies
between males and females at three stages of life using
whole genome resequencing; 2: Quantify the dierential
gene expression between sexes at dierent life stages
by means of genome-wide RNAseq; 3: To test the hy-
pothesis that the relationship between the magnitude of
dierential gene expression and the intensity of sexually
antagonistic selection follows a bimodal \Twin Peaks"
pattern; 4: To test the hypothesis that allelic variation
of genes under sexually antagonistic selection aects
reproductive success in both sexes and link tness to
the functions of these genes.
Required Qualications: We are primarily searching for
a prospective candidate combining a solid background
in evolutionary biology, experience in eld and molecu-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 73
lar work, demonstrated bioinformatics skills and being
familiar with scripting and programming. The ideal
candidate should also be familiar with analyses of popu-
lation data sets derived from whole genome resequencing
and transcriptomic proling.
We are looking for a candidate to join our team in early
May for the beginning of the rst eld season. Salary
established according to local University standards will
be provided during the whole course of the Ph.D.
Universit e Laval is located in beautiful and historic
Qu ebec City http://www.quebecregion.com/en/-
surrounded by stunning nature perfect for any
outdoor experience: http://parcmarin.qc.ca/-
https://www.sepaq.com/pq/jac/ https://-
www.sepaq.com/pq/grj/ Universit e Laval also
oers the lowest tuition fees (2500 $/year) in North
America.
While the University is francophone, PhD defense and
thesis can be done in English.
To apply, please send the following documents in
a consolidated single PDF le: a cover letter de-
scribing your research interests and qualications, a
complete CV, and names of three references by e-
mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Nadia.Aubin-
Horth@bio.ulaval.ca
Do not hesitate to contact us directly for any further
details or questions.
Louis Bernatchez Canadian Research in Genomics and
Conservation of Aquatic Resources Institut de Biologie
Int egrative et des Syst emes, Pavillon Charles-Eugene
Marchand Universit e Laval Qu ebec, QC G1V 0A6
Canada Phone: 1 418 656-3402
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >
ULeicester CancerEvolution
A competitive 4-year PhD studentship is available to
study the mutation and evolution of somatic copy num-
ber changes in mesothelioma, the cancer caused by
asbestos exposure, in collaboration with Prof Frank
Dudbridge and Prof Dean Fennell.
UK/EU/EEA nationals only are eligible.
Details of the project are here https://www2.le.ac.uk/-
departments/genetics/postgraduate/documents/cls-
ggb-studentship-2018/Hollox Genetics PhD 2018.pdf
Apply here https://www2.le.ac.uk/research-degrees/-phd/genetics Any other questions, please email me at
ejh33@leicester.ac.uk
Dr Ed Hollox, Department of Genetics and Genome
Biology, University of Leicester, UK
\ejh33@leicester.ac.uk" <ejh33@leicester.ac.uk >
ULeicester
GibbonCopyNumberVariation
A competitive 4-year PhD studentship is available
through the MIBTP (Midlands Innovative Biosciences
Training partnership) doctoral programme to study the
copy number variation of the gibbon genus with me, Dr
Ed Hollox, and Dr Richard Badge, in collaboration with
Twycross Zoo, Leicestershire.
UK/EU/EEA nationals only are eligible.
Details of the project are here https://www2.le.ac.uk/-
research-degrees/doctoral-training-partnerships/-
bbsrc/HolloxPhDproject.pdf Details of the MIBTP
programme are here https://www2.le.ac.uk/research-
degrees/doctoral-training-partnerships/bbsrc Any
other questions, please email me at ejh33@leicester.ac.uk
Dr Ed Hollox, Department of Genetics and Genome
Biology, University of Leicester, UK
\Hollox, Ed (Dr.)" <ejh33@leicester.ac.uk >
UMainz AntEvolution
PhD position (3 years) - Genetic components to division
of labor in ant societies - JGU Mainz
Application deadline: January 20 ^th, 2018
Behavioral division of labor in ant societies stems from
workers diering in their likelihood and eciency to
perform specic tasks (e.g., foraging for food or nurs-
ing the brood). However, many factors and mecha-
nisms regulating such dierences remain to be identied
and understood. The Libbrecht group at the Johannes
Gutenberg University of Mainz (Germany) is oering
a 3-year PhD position (German Research Foundation,
fully funded, 65% TVL E13) to study the genetic eects
on worker behavior in the Argentine ant (Linepithema74 EvolDir January 1, 2018
humile). The research will include ant collection in the
eld, controlled crosses in the lab, behavioral exper-
iments, ant dissections, molecular biology techniques
and RNA sequencing analyses. The student will get
hands-on training in experimental design, statistics and
bioinformatics.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with a
Master degree (or equivalent) in biology, good English
skills, and a keen interest in animal behavior and evolu-
tionary biology. Previous experience with social insects,
behavioral experiments, statistics and bioinformatics is
advantageous, but not required.
The successful applicant will join an international, inter-
active, dynamic and English-speaking scientic environ-
ment in a brand new building with access to state-of-the-
art, newly equipped laboratories and climate-controlled
rooms. The Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz
hosts many excellent scientic institutions, and Mainz
is a historic city located on the Rhine River with a large
student population and a rich social and cultural life.
Applications should include a 1-page cover letter de-
scribing the motivation, previous research activities and
current research interests of the applicant; the CV of
the applicant (with BSc/MSc grades, publications if
applicable); and the names and email addresses of two
potential referees. Please send all documents as a single
PDF le before January 20 ^th 2018 to Dr. Romain
Libbrecht (romain.libbrecht@uni-mainz.de). The ideal
starting date for the position is April 1 ^st 2018, but is
negotiable.
The Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz is inter-
ested in increasing the number of women in science.
Applications from women are therefore strongly encour-
aged. Similarly, qualied candidates with disabilities
will be preferred.
Dr. Romain Libbrecht Assistant Professor / Junior
Group Leader Institute of Organismic and Molecular
Evolution Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Ger-
many +49 6131 3927852 http://www.bio.uni-mainz.de/-
zoo/evobio/608 ENG HTML.php Romain Libbrecht
<romain.libbrecht@gmail.com >
UMuenster DrosophilaEvolution
The Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity at the Uni-
versity of M ^A^A1nster, Germany, is seeking to ll the
post of a*PhD Position *
(salary level TV-L E13, 65%)
to study social niche-mediated reproductive phenotypes
This xed-term post will start on *1 February 2018* (or
soon thereafter) and is available for 36 months. Cur-
rently, the regular working time for full employment is
39 hours and 50 minutes per week. The position is part
of the recently funded Collaborative Research Centre
(SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC^3 ), as granted by the German Research Founda-
tion (DFG).
This project involves studying the fruit y /Drosophila
melanogaster/ to determine how social interaction dur-
ing development aects the evolutionary outcome of
sexual trait expression, as the developmental social envi-
ronment can provide an individual with cues about what
to anticipate regarding the reproductive environment
they will face during adulthood. Within this project,
the successful candidate will study the eects of the
social niche on male and female reproductive pheno-
types combining behavioural, evolutionary and molecu-
lar techniques. In an experimental evolution study, the
candidate will assess the long-term evolutionary con-
sequences of manipulations of the social environment
Additionally, short-term assays will provide information
about if developmental plasticity in morphological and
behavioural traits has consequences for tness. This
project will combine behavioural and tness assays with
molecular work and an experimental evolution approach
to gain more insight into the evolutionary consequences
of niche conformance.
Applicants should be highly motivated students of any
nationality, and they should have the equivalent of a
master' ^As degree in behavioural ecology or evolution-
ary ecology. A background in any of the following
areas will be useful: previous experience with practical
/Drosophila/ or other insect work, good molecular skills,
and (of particular relevance) previous experience with
bioinformatics and a good understanding of statistics.
Applicants should have excellent communication skills
and be able to work both independently and as part of
a multidisciplinary team. The working language of the
Institute and the lab is English, and good prociency
in spoken and written English is a requirement.
The University of M ^A^A1nster is a large vibrant uni-
versity hosting a number of excellent scientic insti-
tutions (http://www.uni-muenster.de/en/). The Insti-
tute for Evolution and Biodiversity provides a stimu-
lating research environment with a number of scien-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 75
tic groups researching diverse topics centred on dif-
ferent aspects of evolution. Additionally, students can
benet from the structured PhD program oered by
the M ^A^A1nster Graduate School of Evolution (http://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/mgse/). As a part of
the Collaborative Research Centre SFB/TRR 212, the
project will involve intensive collaboration with consor-
tium partners at the Universities of M ^A^A1nster and
Bielefeld. The town of M ^A^A1nster itself has many stu-
dents and presents a dynamic environment with many
cultural and social events throughout the year (http://-
www.muenster.de/en/).
The Universityof M ^A^A1nster is an equal opportunity
employer and is committed to increasing the proportion
of women academics. Consequently, we actively encour-
age applications by women. Female candidates with
equivalent qualications and academic achievements
will be preferentially considered within the framework
of the legal possibilities. We also welcome applications
from candidates with severe disabilities. Disabled candi-
dates with equivalent qualications will be preferentially
considered.
Applications should be written in English.
Please send your application in one single
PDF le by *14 January 2018* to Dr Clau-
dia Fricke (Claudia.Fricke@uni-muenster.de
<mailto:Claudia.Fricke@uni-muenster.de >). Ap-
plications should include 1) a cover letter with a
statement of research interests and motivation (max. 1
page), 2) CV including details about research experience
(please include the abstract of your master' ^As thesis)
and 3) contact details of at least two referees.
{ Claudia Fricke Junior Research Leader
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity H ^A^A1erstr. 1 48 149 Muenster, Germany
Tel. ++49(0)251-83 21042 e-mail: Claudia.Fricke@uni-
muenster.de http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/evolseco Clau-
dia Fricke <Claudia.Fricke@uni-muenster.de >
UMuenster
EvolutionaryCapacitance
PhD position: Evolutionary capacitance in the red our
beetle
We invite applications for a PhD position to study the
role of evolutionary capacitance in the red our bee-
tle Tribolium castaneum. The position is available forthree years at the Institute for Evolution and Biodiver-
sity at the University of M ^A^A1nster in Germany. It is
part of the recently funded collaborative research centre
(SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC3), as granted by the German Research Foundation
(DFG).
The start date is from February 1st 2018 or soon there-
after.
Within this project, the interested candidate will exper-
imentally study how cryptic genetic variation is stored
and released in the red our beetle, and how this process
of evolutionary capacitance may speed up evolutionary
adaptation. The project will in particular focus on the
role of heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) and the eect
of immunological experience of group members on this
process. Long-term evolutionary consequences will be
studied with experimental evolution, and the genomic
consequences will be analysed.
WWU is a large vibrant university hosting a num-
ber of excellent scientic institutions (http://www.uni-
muenster.de/en/). The Institute for Evolution and
Biodiversity (http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
index.shtml) provides a stimulating research environ-
ment with a number of scientic groups research-
ing on diverse topics centred on dierent aspects of
the study of Evolution and the student can bene-
t from the structured PhD program oered by the
M^A^A1nster Graduate School of Evolution (http://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/mgse/). As a part of
the collaborative research centre SFB/TRR 212 (http:/-
/www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/index.html), the
project (http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/-
C01.html) will involve intensive collaboration with con-
sortium partners at the Universities of M ^A^A1nster and
Bielefeld. The town of M ^A^A1nster itself is characterised
by its many students and presents a dynamic environ-
ment with many cultural and social events throughout
the year (http://www.muenster.de/en/).
Qualications: We search a highly motivated student
of any nationality and those with the equivalent of a
Master' ^As degree in in evolution, behaviour, ecology
or related elds are invited to apply. A background in
any of the following subjects will be useful: previous
experience with practical insect work, good molecular
skills and an additional preference of previous experi-
ence with immunology or bioinformatics and a good
understanding of statistics. Applicants should have ex-
cellent communication skills and be able to work both
independently and as part of a multidisciplinary team.
The working language of the institute and the lab is76 EvolDir January 1, 2018
English and good prociency in spoken and written
English is a requirement.
Please send your application in one single PDF le
to Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz (joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de). Included should be 1) a cover letter with
a statement of your research interests and motivation
(max. 1 page), 2) your CV including details of your
research experience (with the abstract of your masters
thesis) and 3) contact details of at least two referees.
Applications should be written in English and the dead-
line is the 14th of January 2018.
The salary will be for 36 months (TV-L E13/65%) with
regular weekly working hours of 39 hours and 50 min-
utes. Applications of women are especially invited. In
the case of similar qualication, competence and specic
achievements, women will be considered on preferential
terms within the framework of the legal possibilities.
Preference will be given to disabled applicants in case
of equivalent qualication.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Biodi-
versity Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueerstr.
1, 48149 Muenster, Germany
Phone (secretary): + 49 251 83 21638 / 21027
Phone (direct): + 49 251 83 24661 Fax: +
49 251 83 24668 Room: 109 joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
animalevolecol/kurtz.shtml DFG Research Train-
ing Group GRK 2220 EvoPAD https://www.uni-
muenster.de/EvoPAD/ DFG SFB-TRR 212 NC3 http:/-
/www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/index.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMunich
BorreliaPathogenAdaptation
*PhD position* at the University of Munich (LMU,
Germany) as part of a project funded by the German
Research Foundation (DFG).
*Duration: *3 years, Starting Date: Spring 2018
*Topic:* HOST AND VECTOR ADAPTATION INTHE TICK-BORNE HUMAN PATHOGENS BORRE-
LIA
*Supervisor: *Dr. No emie Becker (http://-
evol.bio.lmu.de/research/becker/index.html)
*Project summary**:*To be able to survive, parasitic
vector-borne bacteria have developed a range of sophis-
ticated means to adapt to their hosts and vectors. Here
we plan to use population genomics methods to identify
genetic factors involved in host and vector adaptation
in two bacteria species responsible for Lyme disease:
/Borrelia garinii/and /B. bavariensis/. Both species
are present in Europe and Asia and both are human
pathogens. They dier by the type of animal used
as reservoir-host and /B. bavariensis/is composed of
at least two separated populations using dierent tick
vector species.In ourstudy we will reconstruct the evolu-
tionaryhistory of these two species using strains from
Eastern Asia, Western Europe and Russia. We will then
study the evolution of genes that are candidates for
playing a role in host and/or vector adaptation and test
whether these genes are under selective pressure. Next,
we will identify novel genes under selection that might
be responsible for host or vector adaptation in the two
species under study. Finally, we will look for functional
validation of the role played by those genes in infection
and survival in the host or the vector.
Our study will be ofepidemiological importance as it
will help to predict the spread of the dierent /Borre-
lia/species andwill also ultimately contribute to the un-
derstanding of why certain /Borrelia/species are human
pathogenic and how the genetic mechanisms involved
in human immune system evasion evolved.
*Necessary skills*(or to be acquired within the rst
months of PhD):
- theoretical knowledge in population genetics
- some experience in omics: sequencing, assembly, map-
ping of NGS data
- basic microbiology lab skills
- basic R and statistics
- basic Ubuntu/Linux
*Skills that will be acquired during the PhD:*
- knowledge of the Lyme Borrelisosis system
- Borrelia lab work and sequencing
- Field work (Germany and Japan)
- Population genetic methods (phylogeny, recombination,
selection)
- Protein-structure predictionJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 77
- Protein-binding assays
- Borrelia genetic manipulation
The successful applicant will join the group of Dr. Becker
within the Division of Evolutionary Biology and will
also be eligible to apply to jointhe Graduate School Life
Science Munich (http://www.lsm.bio.lmu.de/) that pro-
poses networking and specic training for PhD students.
*How to apply:*
Please send CV, motivation letter and contact of 2 refer-
ees as a single pdf le before *DECEMBER 18, 2017*to
No emie Becker (nbecker@bio.lmu.de).
{ Dr. No emie Becker Division of Evolutionary Biology
Ludwig-Maximilian University Grosshaderner Str. 2 D-
82152 Planegg-Martinsried, Germany Phone: +49 (0)89
2180 74106 Email: nbecker@bio.lmu.de Oce: B.01.005
No emie Becker <nbecker@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >
UOtago NZ 3 EvolutionaryBiol
Three PhD projects.
|{
PhD Project Opportunity
Parasitic Puppeteers - How do They Pull the Strings?
We are currently seeking a PhD student with interests
in genetics, evolution, parasitology and neuroscience to
investigate the molecular mechanisms through which
parasitic worms alter the behaviour of their insect hosts.
Project Description Parasites can have profound eects
on the animal hosts they invade, manipulating host bi-
ology with exquisite precision to enhance host-to-host
transmission. One of the most extraordinary of these
host manipulations is the water-seeking behaviour that
some nematodes and hairworms induce in their hosts
so that the worms might exit the host and reproduce.
The process is the stu of science ction; the worm
hijacks the host' ^As central nervous system forcing it
to seek water. Once water is found the adult worm,
often many times the size of the host, emerges, sacric-
ing the host. This amazing alteration in behaviour is
induced by parasitic worms spanning two phyla (Nema-
toda and Nematomorpha) and is observed in a variety
of arthropod hosts, notably crickets, weta, earwigs, and
sandhoppers, leading us to hypothesise that a common
and conserved mechanism is being utilised by the para-
sites to induce this behaviour in their hosts. Here wepropose to couple eld and laboratory studies of two
phylogenetically distinct hosts and their parasites, with
powerful genomic and bioinformatic comparisons to elu-
cidate the trigger and genetic cascade through which
these parasitic puppeteers elicit this highly conserved,
yet astonishing behavioural response.
The project emerges from a Marsden Grant headed by
Professor Neil Gemmell (Anatomy) in collaboration with
Professor Robert Poulin (Zoology) and will be based in
the Gemmell laboratory at the University of Otago.
The Ideal Candidate The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics/genomics, evolution-
ary biology and bioinformatics. Knowledge of NGS
approaches and analyses us desirable, while past work
in comparative genomics and an interest in parasitol-
ogy and neurobiology may be helpful. They candidate
will be motivated and organized, with a demonstrated
capacity to master the broad skill set necessary for the
successful completion of a research project. They will
be collegial and able to work alongside a wide variety
of people. In addition they will have a strong commit-
ment to academic and research excellence. Minimum
qualications: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc. in Genetics,
Genomics, Molecular Biology or equivalent with an A-
average or better.
Scholarship Funding: A scholarship NZ $25,000 p.a. plus
fees will be available to the successful applicant.
Eligibility: Applications are invited from all nationali-
ties. However, candidates for whom English is not a rst
language must satisfy the English language requirements
to be eligible for study at the University of Otago. Our
entrance requirements for international students are de-
tailed here: http://www.otago.ac.nz/future-students/-
international/index.html . How to Apply: Interested
applicants are encouraged to make informal enquiries
to Professor Neil Gemmell. Please send a cover letter
explaining your interest in and suitability for the role to-
gether with a curriculum vitae, a copy of your academic
transcript, a sample of your written scientic work, proof
of English language competency (if necessary), and the
names of three referees to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Further information Gemmell lab <http://gemmell-
lab.otago.ac.nz/ >
Applications close on the 15/1/18. It would be desirable
if the successful applicant were able to start by early
2018.
|{
PhD Project Opportunity78 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Population Genomics of The New Zealand Lamprey We
are currently seeking a PhD student with interests in ge-
netics, evolution, and ecology to work on the population
genomics of the New Zealand lamprey.
Project Description The New Zealand lamprey is an
enigmatic, but culturally important species, found in
the streams of rivers of both North and South Island. In
this project we will undertake the rst comprehensive
analysis of the New Zealand lamprey population genet-
ics using the latest population genomic approaches. We
will use these data to explore issues spanning taxonomy,
population genetic structure, population viability and
health. These data are vital to the ongoing management
of this species as its distribution and numbers both ap-
pear to be in steady decline, likely due to increased use
on water resources, competition and potentially pollu-
tion. A further threat is a disease, known as lamprey
reddening syndrome, that is observed now at high fre-
quencies in some populations. There may be prospects
to use genomic approaches to determine the underpin-
ning causes of this emerging
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOxford 2PhD
EvolutionHumanBehaviour
* Project: The eect of network structure and dynamics
on social behaviour in humans*
* Deadline for expressions of interest: 15 December
2017*
Applications are invited for two fully-funded Oxford-
Calleva Graduate Scholarships, supported by the Uni-
versity of Oxford and the Calleva Research Centre at
Magdalen College, Oxford. The successful applicants
will be part of an interdisciplinary team working on a
4-year project funded by the Calleva Research Centre
at Magdalen College, to begin in October 2018.
The project will bring together two research groups
based at the University of Oxford, working on a range
of topics relating to human social behaviour, including
cultural evolution, the evolution of cooperation, and the
social psychology of inter-group contact. The project'sPrincipal Investigator, Laura Fortunato, is Associate
Professor of Evolutionary Anthropology, a Fellow of
Magdalen College, and an External Professor at the
Santa Fe Institute. The Co-Principal Investigator, Miles
Hewstone, is Professor of Social Psychology, a Fellow of
New College, and Director of the Oxford Centre for the
Study of Inter-Group Conict.
The project aims to investigate the network structure
and dynamics of intra- and inter-group interactions in
humans, with a focus on cooperation and competition.
The scholarships provide scope to pursue research in
a variety of topics linked to cooperation, inter-group
relations, cultural transmission (in both adults and chil-
dren), and social networks (both real-world and online),
including opportunities to conduct eldwork in Italy.
The two fully-funded doctoral scholarships will begin
in October 2018. One scholarship (DPhil Anthropol-
ogy) will be based at the Institute of Cognitive and
Evolutionary Anthropology, the other (DPhil Experi-
mental Psychology) will be based in the Department of
Experimental Psychology.
Applications are due on 2017-01-19 for the DPhil Anthro-
pology and on 2018-01-08 for the DPhil Experimental
Psychology. Potential applicants who meet the eligibil-
ity criteria are invited to submit an informal expression
of interest well ahead of the ocial closing dates, and
ideally before 2017-12-15, via email to Laura Fortunato.
Further information about the awards, the project, and
the application procedure is available at:
www.santafe.edu/ ~fortunato/wp-content/uploads/-
2017/12/2017-12-02 Calleva-DPhil-advert.pdf { *Laura
Fortunato*jjAssociate Professor of Evolutionary An-
thropologyjUniversity of Oxford jjExternal Professor
jSanta Fe Institute jj
\fortunato@santafe.edu" <fortunato@santafe.edu >
UppsalaU WolfPopulationGenomics
PhD student in population genomics of wolves We are
looking for a highly motivated PhD student to join
Hans Ellegren' ^As lab group of about 10 PhD students,
post-docs and bioinformaticians working with evolu-
tionary and population genomic approaches to specia-
tion, adaptation, molecular evolution and conservation
genomics (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-biology/-
ellegren/). The announced position is on an exciting
project dealing population genomics and molecular evo-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 79
lutionary analyses of wolves.
The Scandinavian wolf population is a striking example
of the impact of isolation on genetic diversity and sur-
vival. Wolves were once extinct in Scandinavia, but in
the early 1980s two individuals re-entered the peninsula
and successfully reproduced. Cut o from the larger
Finnish-Russian metapopulation by the Reindeer hus-
bandry area to the North, the population remained very
small (less than 10 individuals) for a decade. However,
in 1991 a single male immigrant entered the population
and reproduced, resulting in genetic rescue through an
increase in both genetic diversity and population size
(Vil^A^A et al 2003 Proc R Soc Lond B 270:91-97). To
this day the population remains characterised by pro-
longed periods of isolation with rare immigration events.
Inbreeding is extensive.
We are sequencing the genomes of hundreds of
wolves from both Scandinavia and the Finnish-Russian
metapopulation. This dataset provides an ideal oppor-
tunity to study the consequences of population isolation
and genetic rescue, as well as providing critical con-
servation information for the long-term viability of the
population. It also provides unique possibilities to study
the distribution of tness eects in an inbred popula-
tion and the accumulation of deleterious mutations in
gene sequences. We have recently demonstrated how
inbreeding translates into extensive arrays of runs of
homozygosity in individual wolves, with some having en-
tire chromosome that are identical-by-descent (Kardos
et al 2017 Genomic consequences of intensive inbreeding
in an isolated wolf population. Nature Ecology and
Evolution doi: 10.1038/s41559-017-0375-4).
There are several possible lines to pursue depending on
interest and background of the successful candidate/s.
These include assessment of how genomic diversity varies
over time and in relation to inbreeding, identication
of candidate genomic regions for inbreeding depression,
assessment of gene ow between populations, and molec-
ular evolutionary analyses of large-scale sequence data.
The venue for the position, the Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Centre, is situated in central Uppsala (http://-
www.ieg.uu.se). The working atmosphere is highly inter-
national with a regular recruitment of PhD students and
post-docs from abroad. The Centre constitutes an excit-
ing arena for multidisciplinary research in evolutionary
biology in a broad sense, housing some 300 scientists and
graduate students, and with research programs in, for
example, ecology, genetics, genomics and developmental
biology. Our graduate school oers a creative and stimu-
lating environment and oers a rich variety of seminars,
journal clubs, courses and possibilities to interact with
other scholars and students. Local platforms for next-generation sequencing (http://www.scilifelab.uu.se) and
high-performance computational analyses are very use-
ful. Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scan-
dinavia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college town
with beautiful surroundings conveniently situated 40
minutes by train from Stockholm.
The graduate program covers four years of full-time,
fully paid study. The position can be combined with
teaching (maximum 20%), which prolongs the employ-
ment with the corresponding time.
Informal inquiries can be directed to Hans Ellegren
(hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se).
Applications will only be accepted when submitted
through the Uppsala University web portal no later
than Jan 7 2018, using this link: http://uu.se/en/about-
uu/join-us/details/?positionId=182339 Hans Ellegren
<hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se >
USheeld 2PhD
EvolutionaryGenomics
We are seeking two highly motivated and enthusiastic
PhD students to study sex chromosomes in birds and
reptiles.
Deadline for applying: 9th January 2018
*Evolution and implications of sex determination diver-
sity*
Lead supervisor: Dr Alison Wright, University of
Sheeld
Co-supervisors: Prof Jon Slate (University of Sheeld),
Prof Steve Paterson (University of Liverpool)
Sex chromosomes have evolved independently, multiple
times across animals and closely related species often
exhibit dierent sexual systems and modes of sex deter-
mination. Understanding the causes and consequences
of this diversity is a major challenge in evolutionary bi-
ology, with important implications for sexual selection,
sexual dimorphism and adaptation. The project will
tackle these questions using cutting-edge bioinformatic
techniques and next-generation sequence data across
reptile species. Reptiles are an ideal group to study sex
chromosome evolution as they exhibit an exceptional
diversity in sex determination systems, where dierent
types of sex chromosomes have evolved independently
multiple times, making it possible to identify convergent
evolutionary patterns.80 EvolDir January 1, 2018
The approach taken can be tailored to the particular
interests of the student, and could include studies of
sex chromosome degeneration and sexualisation, gene
expression evolution and sexual conict. Applicants
should have strong analytical skills and an enthusiasm
for evolutionary genomics.
Interested applicants are encouraged to contact Ali-
son Wright before applying (a.e.wright@sheeld.ac.uk
<alison.e.wright@ucl.ac.uk >) for more details on the
project, funding and facilities. For details on current
research in the Wright lab, see www.alisonewright.co.uk
*Evolutionary genomics of zebra nch **supergenes*
Lead supervisor: Prof Jon Slate, University of Sheeld
Co-supervisors: Dr Alison Wright (University of
Sheeld), Prof Steve Paterson (University of Liverpool)
Inversion polymorphisms ('supergenes') are increasingly
recognised as an important source of genetic variation,
responsible for some dramatic phenotypes (e.g. social
system in re ants, male morphs in rus, mimicry in
butteries etc.). We have recently shown that a super-
gene on the Z chromosome (a sex chromosome) explains
nearly all of the heritable variation in sperm morphology
in zebra nches (Kim et al. 2017; see also https://-
goo.gl/cCUQHu). However, the origin and evolution of
the supergene are unknown.
This project will harness next-generation sequencing
technology to understand the Z chromosome supergene,
and the evolutionary importance of inversion polymor-
phisms more generally. The student will use long reads
generated by 10X Genomics technology to:
1) Determine the origin of the Z chromosome inversion
polymorphism; 2) Understand the molecular evolution
of the genes within it; 3) Compare the Z inversion and
at least three autosomal inversion polymorphisms to
understand how, and wherein the genome, inversion
polymorphisms arise.
The project will suit a candidate that is excited by
analysing genomic datasets to address evolutionary ques-
tions.
*Training*
These PhD projects will provide an excellent opportu-
nity to learn state-of-the-art genomic skills to study
sex chromosomes and test clear theoretical predictions.
The successful candidate will be trained in cutting-edge
bioinformatics and genomic techniques. The applicant
will benet from the diverse range of expertise oered
by the co-supervisors and researchers within the Animal
and Plant Sciences Department at the University of
Sheeld.
*Funding Notes*For details on how to apply, including eligibility, see:
https://acce.shef.ac.uk/phd-opportunities/sheeld/ {
Dr Alison Wright
NERC Independent Research Fellow Dept. of Animal
and Plant Sciences, University of Sheeld Sheeld, S10
2TN
Twitter: @alielw Lab webpage <http://-
www.alisonewright.co.uk >Departmental webpage <
http://www.sheeld.ac.uk/aps/sta-and-students/-
acadsta/wright >
Alison E Wright <a.e.wright@sheeld.ac.uk >
USheeld ButteryColourEvolution
NERC funded PhD opportunity on evolution and devel-
opment of structural colour in Heliconius butteries.
We are seeking an enthusiastic student with interests
in evolution and developmental biology to work on a
project investigating the developmental mechanisms con-
trolling iridescent structural colouration in Heliconius
butteries.
Funding is through the NERC ACCE DTP and as such
is only open to UK and EU applicants.
Closing date for applications is 9th Jan 2018.
Further info and to apply: http://nadeau-
lab.group.shef.ac.uk/nerc-funded-phd-opportunity/
{ Dr Nicola Nadeau Dept. of Animal and
Plant Sciences Alfred Denny Building, Univer-
sity of Sheeld Western Bank, Sheeld S10 2TN,
UK N.Nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)114
222 4717 http://nadeau-lab.group.shef.ac.uk/
\n.nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk" <n.nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk >
USouthernMississippi
MarineInvertFitness
M.S. and Ph.D. STUDENT POSITIONS Marine Inver-
tebrate Behavior, Ecophysiology, and Fisheries Division
of Coastal Sciences, The University of Southern Missis-
sippi Ocean Springs, MS
We seek highly motivated students to ll two graduateJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 81
student positions in the laboratory of Dr. Zachary Dar-
nell at The University of Southern Mississippi's Gulf
Coast Research Laboratory in Ocean Springs, MS. Both
positions will begin in August 2018. Students selected
for these positions will pursue graduate degrees in the
Division of Coastal Sciences and will be supported on re-
search assistantships (details below). Both the M.S. and
Ph.D. assistantship will include substantial exibility
in research topic, within the general realms of marine
invertebrate behavior, ecophysiology, and sheries.
Our current research focuses on environmental con-
staints on behavior, performance, and tness of marine
and estuarine invertebrates, and the strategies used by
organisms to overcome these constraints. More specif-
ically, this encompasses (1) plastic and adaptive be-
havioral and physiological responses to environmental
change and environmental stress, (2) environmental
eects on life histories, distributions, and population
dynamics, and (3) anthropogenic impacts on organism-
environment interactions. This research also has a
strong applied focus, using ecophysiological approaches
to address sheries management and conservation ques-
tions. For more information on current research areas,
visit http://sites.usm.edu/zdarnell/ . Details on each
assistantship are below:
M.S. ASSISTANTSHIP: The M.S. assistantship includes
a stipend of $22,800 per year, increasing to $23,400 per
year following comprehensive exams. A tuition waiver
is also included. Required qualications include a mini-
mum GPA of 3.5 on all undergraduate coursework and
GRE scores exceeding the 50th percentile. Prior re-
search experience is preferred.
Ph.D. ASSISTANTSHIP: The Ph.D. assistantship in-
cludes a stipend of $23,400 per year, increasing to
$24,000 per year following comprehensive exams. A
tuition waiver is also included. Required qualications
include a minimum GPA of 3.5 on all undergraduate or
graduate (if entering with a M.S.) coursework and GRE
scores exceeding the 50th percentile. Prior research ex-
perience is preferred. Priority will be given to applicants
with an M.S. degree, but exceptional applicants at the
B.S. level will also be considered.
The Division of Coastal Sciences is a research and grad-
uate education unit within the School of Ocean Sci-
ence and Technology, oering programs leading to the
Doctor of Philosophy and Master of Science degrees.
The Division is located at Gulf Coast Research Labo-
ratory (Ocean Springs, MS), a marine laboratory fea-
turing comprehensive basic and applied research pro-
grams in coastal and marine biological sciences (http://-
gcrl.usm.edu). Research program support includes state-
of-the-art laboratory facilities and instrumentation; aeet of small and large research vessels, including the
R/V Point Sur; the GCRL Museum collection; the
Center for Fisheries Research and Development; NSF
I/UCRC Science Center for Marine Fisheries, and aqua-
culture facilities including the Thad Cochran Marine
Aquaculture Center. Additional information on grad-
uate programs in the Division of Coastal Sciences can
be found here: http://gcrl.usm.edu/coastal sciences/-
index.php . Interested students should contact Dr.
Zachary Darnell (zachary.darnell@usm.edu). Please in-
clude a copy of your CV (including GRE scores), un-
ocial undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and
contact information for three professional references.
Review of applicants will begin immediately. For full
consideration, submit all materials prior to January 2,
2018.
Zachary Darnell <zachary.darnell@usm.edu >
USussex BehaviourConservation
*Insect behaviour, life history and environmental
change*
A Ph.D. studentship (42 months) is available from
September 2018 under the supervision of Dr Wiebke
Schuett, Department of Evolution, Behaviour and Envi-
ronment, School of Life Sciences.
Deadline: 6th January 2018
Environmental, including anthropogenic, change has
vast consequences on individuals, population dynamics
and communities. Behaviour is often the rst response
to such change. Thus, understanding individuals' be-
havioural response to environmental change is important
for identifying which individuals or species are likely to
persist in or disappear from altered habitats. Individuals
of many species consistently dier in their behaviour (i.e.
show personality dierences). Such personality dier-
ences are often closely linked to life-history, physiological
and/or morphological traits, forming suits of correlated
traits (i.e. pace-of-life syndromes, POLS). Unravelling
how environmental conditions inuence POLS structure
would make an important contribution to understanding
responses to and (ecological and evolutionary) conse-
quences of environmental change.
A fully-funded Ph.D. studentship is oered in this re-
search area. Topics that the successful candidate could
pursue include the inuence of environmental change
(e.g. urbanization, climate change) on behaviour, and82 EvolDir January 1, 2018
other POL traits, as well as their (co)variance. This
might involve the evolution of personality dierences, in-
formation use and decision-making under unpredictable
environmental conditions, causes and consequences of
POLS and impacts of environmental conditions on in-
dividuals, populations and communities. We oer the
opportunity to work on insects, but work on other inver-
tebrates might also be possible. Experimental work can
be conducted in the eld, in enclosures (preferably on
ground beetles) and/or in the laboratory (several taxa).
Please submit a formal application using our online appli-
cation system at http://www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/-
apply, including a cover letter (headed with project title),
a short potential project outline (ca. 300-500 words),
CV (max 2 pages), BSc/MSc degree transcripts and
certicates, IELTS certicate (if non-UK) and names of
two academic referees.
Candidates must hold/expect to obtain minimum 2:1 in
BSc Biology or relevant subject. An MSc degree will be
advantageous. We expect a highly motivated, talented,
well-organised and meticulous candidate with strong
quantitative skills. The candidate will have background
in Behavioural Ecology, Field Ecology, Conservation,
Evolution and/or Experimental Ecology. Previous ex-
perience in collecting data in the eld, working with
insects, behavioural observations, physiological analyses,
statistical modelling (preferentially in R) is advanta-
geous. Candidates for whom English is not their rst
language will require an IELTS score of 6.5 overall, with
not less than 6.0 in any section. A driving license is
desirable.
Contact Anna Izykowska for application enquiries
(a.izykowska@sussex.ac.uk)
Contact Dr Wiebke Schuett for enquiries about the
project (wiebke.schuett@uni-hamburg.de)
Wiebke Schuett <wiebkesch@googlemail.com >UVermont QuEST
QuEST @ the University of Vermont:
*https://www.uvm.edu/quest* *The Quantitative and
Evolutionary STEM Training (QuEST) provides doc-
toral students with the skills, knowledge, and compe-
tencies needed to solve environmental and global health
problems in an ever changing workforce and research
environment.*
The University of Vermont NSF Research Traineeship
(NRT) program is an innovative and evidence-based
model for transforming STEM graduate education train-
ing. Emerging infectious diseases, antibiotic and pesti-
cide resistance, reduced crop yields caused by climate
extremes and shifts, and the loss of biodiversity aect
environmental and global health and food security. In
each case, identication of successful solutions to these
global challenges requires fundamental knowledge of
evolutionary principles. QuEST trains these problem-
solvers.
*Research*
Research activities will center around three topical areas
and their intersection: evolutionary and ecological im-
pacts of rapid environmental change, global change and
disease dynamics, and modeling for prediction. Study
systems will reect the research expertise of over 30
faculty across eight academic units at the University of
Vermont and will span diseases, pests, and species inva-
sions in plant, insect, marine, amphibian, and human
systems. Learn more about QuEST research <https://-
www.uvm.edu/node/248274 >: https://www.uvm.edu/-
quest/research-internships-experience *Faculty*
The QuEST program is unique among other interdisci-
plinary, big-data programs across the country in our em-
phasis on evolutionary training, modeling for prediction,
and culturally sensitive teamwork. Meet QuEST fac-
ulty<https://www.uvm.edu/node/248272 >: https:/-
/www.uvm.edu/quest/participating-faculty *Career*
Meaningful internships drive career connections. QuEST
internships are designed to develop continued part-
nership with industry and non-academic institutes
and centers. Students will identify possible intern-
ship partners by end of the rst year and during
second year include the internship as part of disser-
tation research proposal including deliverables result-
ing from work. Learn about internships <https://-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 83
www.uvm.edu/node/248274 >: https://www.uvm.edu/-
quest/research-internships-experience \C. Brandon Og-
bunu" <chike.brandon@gmail.com >
UVienna PlantPhylogeography
The Research Group Plant Systematics of the
Department for Botany and Biodiversity Re-
search at the University of Vienna (https://-
plantsystematics.univie.ac.at/), Austria is recruiting
a
PhD student in Plant Evolution & Phylogeography
(m/f)
Transcontinental or even world-wide distribution of
plants is a common phenomenon on the levels of families
and genera. However, there are very few cases of world-
wide distribution of plant species, that do not result from
direct or indirect human aided dispersal. The tufted hair
grass (Deschampsia cespitosa) occurs in (semi-)natural
habitats worldwide in temperate zones (incl. tropical
high mountains) and is thought to have achieved its
present day distribution essentially without human as-
sistance. We study the pathways and the chronology of
long distance dispersal leading to its present world-wide
distribution by investigating the biogeographic patterns,
i.e. the relationships among the Eurasian, North and
South American (including Antarctica), African, and
Australasian populations and the evolution of polyploid
variants in various regions. Using molecular (cpDNA)
and genomic tools (Restriction site Associated DNA
markers = RADseq) we aim to identify source popula-
tions and their derivates. The cpDNA data are expected
to provide a global picture of relationships and disper-
sal routes within and between geographical regions and
continents. Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) pat-
terns gained from RADseq data will deliver more precise
information on divergence among populations within
regions and among them. These data will also provide
information on genetic structure and diversity, and help
in revealing population history, for instance possible
phases of very small founder populations following ar-
rival after long-distance dispersal. This study using
the combination of the above introduced and several
additional tools (e.g. cytogenetics) in this grass species
will provide new insights into the history of plant dis-
persal and the evolution of grassland ecosystems in the
temperate regions on a global scale.
The candidate should have - an MSc in evolutionarybiology or related elds, such as evolutionary genetics,
molecular ecology, bioinformatics, etc; - high motivation
and enthusiasm; - an excellent academic track record; - a
demonstrated computer literacy, including some knowl-
edge of Unix (e.g., from a course); - preferred: experience
with NGS methodology (wet lab or bioinformatics); - ex-
cellent organization and communication skills; - uency
in English (NB German knowledge is not essential)
We are an international team with English as the work-
ing language. The position oers a salary according
to Austrian Science Fund standard (including health
insurance), and the opportunity to attend international
conferences. To be considered please send your applica-
tion as a single pdf le to josef.greimler@univie.ac.at, in-
cluding a motivation letter with a statement of research
interests (max. 2 pages), your CV and if applicable
publication list, university certicates including grades,
and the names and contacts of three referees. Please
note: Incomplete applications will not be considered.
Screening of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until the position is lled. The latest preferred
start date is April 1st, 2018.
AssProf Dr Ovidiu Paun Department for Botany and
Biodiversity Research University of Vienna Rennweg
14, A - 1030 Vienna http://plantgenomics.univie.ac.at
ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at
UWestAlabama
BaikalSculpinEvolution
MS position in Conservation Biology Stipend: up to
$22,000/yr Tuition waiver approved for students who
instruct introductory biology lab sections
The Laboratory of AQuatic Evolution (LAQE) at the
University of West Alabama is dedicated to research
involving the evolution and conservation of aquatic bio-
diversity. We have an opening for one Master of Science
student to assist with ongoing projects including, but
not limited to: 1) Speciation in ancient lakes (Lake
Baikal, Siberia); 2) Adaptation to extreme aquatic envi-
ronments; 3) Functional genomics of mitochondria.
The University of West Alabama is a small, public
Master's-granting institution located within commut-
ing distance of Meridian, MS and Tuscaloosa, AL. The
University oers an attractive benets package and com-
petitive salaries. Aordable housing is available in Liv-
ingston, Alabama, within walking distance of campus.84 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Duties and responsibilities: - Conduct independent and
collaborative research on shes of Lake Baikal. - Main-
tain a small live sh facility. - Travel to Siberia (Russia)
in summer 2018. - Participate in lab meetings. - Help
train new lab members. - Instruct undergraduate biol-
ogy laboratory sections (optional).
Qualications: - Bachelor of Science degree in biology
or a related eld. - Interest in/experience with phyloge-
netic systematics and NGS bioinformatics. - Experience
with general molecular biology techniques (DNA extrac-
tion, PCR, electrophoresis). - Prociency with Microsoft
Excel (required) and R (preferred). - Organized and
detail-oriented.
Benets: The stipend for this research assistant posi-
tion is $14,000 per year. This may be supplemented
by up to $8,000 and a full tuition waiver if the student
agrees to teach laboratory sections of general zoology
or introductory biology.
Interested candidates should build an application con-
taining; 1) cover letter; 2) curriculum vitae including
GPA and GRE scores; 3) contact information for three
professional references. Ocial transcripts will be re-
quired prior to candidate selection.
Complete applications (pdf) should be attached to an
email with the header \Graduate student application"
and sent to: msandel@uwa.edu
Michael Sandel, PhD Assistant Professor & Coordina-
tor of Conservation Programs Department of Biological
and Environmental Sciences The University of West
Alabama 205-652-3475 msandel@uwa.edu
The University of West Alabama does not discriminate
on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, reli-
gion, age, disability or sexual orientation in employment,
or the provision of services. Applications from members
of minority groups are encouraged.
\Sandel, Michael" <msandel@uwa.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
InvasiveInsectAdaptation
University of Wisconsin-Madison MS and PhD positions
on molecular adaptation of invasive insects
Position Description: MS and/or PhD research assis-
tantships are available to assess how invasive insects
adapt to novel environments in the Molecular Ecology
Lab at UW Madison. Insect pests can be viewed asmodel systems in which to explore fundamental con-
cepts in ecology and evolutionary biology. They are
especially promising candidates to study mechanisms
of rapid evolution at the genetic level, as many insect
pests have shown a remarkable ability to cope with pesti-
cides, novel climatic space, and novel host plants. While
there are signicant challenges in determining adapta-
tion at the genetic level and in nding ways to forecast
future changes, there are strong incentives (ecological,
economic and social) to do this research. Students will
combine population genomics approaches with eld ecol-
ogy and manipulative experiments to understand the
evolutionary mechanisms of adaptation. Training will
focus on the use of population genomics and physiologi-
cal approaches to relate spatial and temporal variation
in the environment to adaptive genetic variation.
Information on University, Department, Lab, and City:
The University of Wisconsin-Madison is one of the major
research universities in the United States. This project
will be supported in the Department of Entomology and
under the supervision of Dr. Sean Schoville.| Madi-
son consistently ranks as one of the best places in the
United States to live, work, and study. It is Wisconsin's
capital city, with a vibrant population of approximately
230,000 that combines small town charm with a variety
of leisure and cultural opportunities.
Stipend/Salary: Current annual stipend levels are
$22,081 per year before taxes, plus tuition remission
and health care benets.| Financial support is avail-
able for two years.| The start date for the project is
September 2018.
Qualications: A BS or BA degree in entomology, biol-
ogy or a related discipline is required.
We are looking for motivated students interested in pur-
suing a MS or PhD degree at UW-Madison. Students
with an MS degree will be given preference in admissions
to the PhD program. The preferred candidate will have
prior research experience and have some knowledge of
population genetics. Candidates should have interests in
entomology, evolutionary ecology, and working in both
the eld and laboratory. Excellent writing and verbal
communication skills are expected, as well as the ability
to work collaboratively.
Application Process: Applications will be reviewed upon
receipt and review will continue until candidates are
chosen.| The application deadline is Jan 9, 2018. The
University of Wisconsin-Madison is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer. We promote excel-
lence through diversity and encourage all qualied indi-
viduals to apply.
Interested applicants are asked to e-mail the followingJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 85
documents listed below to our Student Services Coor-
dinator Sara Rodock (rodock@wisc.edu) (in ONE PDF
le please).| Please specify in your letter when you
would be available to start.
Required Documents: -The \Entomology; Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison Graduate Application
Cover Sheet" which can be found at: http:/-
/www.entomology.wisc.edu/sites/default/les/-
schoville coversheet.doc - A well-crafted cover letter
outlining research interests, academic and professionalbackgrounds - Resume/CV - Copies of transcripts
(unocial copies acceptable at this point) - GRE scores
if available - Names and contact addresses of three
references
{ Sean Schoville University of Wisconsin-Madison De-
partment of Entomology 1630 Linden Drive 637 Rus-
sell Labs Madison, WI 53706 Oce phone: 608-
262-2956 http://labs.russell.wisc.edu/molecularecology
sean.schoville@wisc.edu
Jobs
AuburnU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
AuburnU EvolutionaryAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
AustralianNationalU 2 AnimalEvolutionaryPhysiology
87
AustralianNationalU 2 PopulationEcologist . . . . . . . .88
BrownU ResAssist EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
ColumbiaU TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
CornellU DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
GeorgiaSouthernU Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
HarvardU 2ResTech AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Job:MonashU ResOcer EvolutionaryGenomics . . . 92
LMU Muenchen ResAssoc EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
McGillU EcolEvolutionaryInformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
MichiganStateU BioinformaticianComputationalScien-
tist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
NOAA NWFSC Seattle ConservationBiology . . . . . . 95
NorthCarolinaMuseum InvertCollectionsManager . . 96
NTNU Trondheim Norway EvolutionaryEntomology 97
OceanU China BioinformaticsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 97
SanDiegoZoo Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98SGN Frankfurt MolecularBiosystematics . . . . . . . . . . 98
UBath 2 2yr PrizeFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UBielefeld 2Tech Individualisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UCambridge FieldAssist EvolutionButteryLearning
101
UCollege London PlantOrFungalEvolutionaryBiol 102
UGeorgia PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UHohenheim Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
UMaine PlantEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UMassachusetts Amherst ResFellow CellMovementEvol
104
UMissouri StLouis PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UNevada EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UQAT Quebec ForestPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . .107
UTexas ElPaso CollectionManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UToronto BioinformaticsTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
WhitmanC Washington LabTech MolecularEvolution
10986 EvolDir January 1, 2018
AuburnU EvoDevo
Faculty Position Evolution of Developmental Mecha-
nisms Department of Biological Sciences, College of
Sciences and Mathematics Auburn University
The Department of Biological Sciences at Auburn Uni-
versity invites applications for a tenure-track, 9-month
faculty appointment at the level of Assistant Professor,
beginning Fall, 2018. We seek applicants exploring the
evolution of developmental mechanisms in marine sys-
tems who will contribute to our marine biology program.
We particularly encourage those working on marine
invertebrate systems to apply. The successful candi-
date is expected to establish an extramurally funded,
internationally recognized research program. Instruc-
tional responsibilities include development of graduate
and/or undergraduate courses on topics that include the
evolution of developmental mechanisms, developmental
biology, larval biology, evolution, or related elds. This
position is the rst of three hires in the broader area of
development.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in biology or a related
discipline and must demonstrate excellent written and in-
terpersonal communication skills and collegiality. Quali-
cations include postdoctoral or professional experience,
a strong publication record, and evidence of potential
for funding. The candidate selected for this position
must be able to meet eligibility requirements for work
in the United States at the time the appointment is
scheduled to begin and continue working legally for the
proposed term of employment. Applicants must submit
a cover letter describing specic qualications and inter-
est in this position, a curriculum vitae, a description of
research focus, a statement of teaching philosophy and
experience, and the names and contact information of
three professional references. Additionally, applicants
should have an established Google Scholar prole. Re-
view of applications will begin January 1, 2018, and will
continue until a suitable candidate is found.
Applicants must apply online at: http://-
aufacultypositions.peopleadmin.com/postings/2575
More information can be found at: www.auburn.edu/-
biology Questions should be directed to Ken Halanych
at ken@auburn.edu.
Auburn maintains high levels of research activity and
high standards for teaching excellence. Its 2017 enroll-
ment of 29,776 students includes 23,964 undergraduates
and 5,812 graduate and professional students. Organized
into twelve academic colleges and schools, Auburn's1,450 faculty members oer more than 200 educational
programs. The newly hired faculty member will be able
to participate in University-wide initiatives including
the Auburn University Cellular and Molecular Biology
Peaks of Excellence program (AU CMB) and the Omics
and Informatics Cluster. The University has formal
ties to HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology and
Dauphin Island Sea Lab, which oer opportunities for
new faculty to build research connections
Auburn residents enjoy a thriving community, recog-
nized as one of the \best small towns in America," with
moderate climate and easy access to major cities or
to beach and mountain recreational facilities. Situated
along the rapidly developing 1-85 corridor between At-
lanta, Georgia, and Montgomery, Alabama, the com-
bined Auburn-Opelika-Columbus statistical area has a
population of over 500,000, with excellent public school
systems and regional medical centers.
Auburn University is an EEONet/Disability Employer
Paula Norrell <pkn0001@auburn.edu >
AuburnU EvolutionaryAdaptation
Faculty Position in Global Change Biology
Department of Biological Sciences, College of Sciences
and Mathematics
Auburn University
The Department of Biological Sciences at Auburn Uni-
versity invites applications for a tenure-track faculty
position beginning Fall 2018 at the rank of Assistant
Professor in Global Change Biology of Marine Systems
and/or Plant Systems. The successful candidate is ex-
pected to establish an extramurally funded, interna-
tionally recognized research program focused on local,
regional, or global impacts of anthropogenic environmen-
tal changes. We seek candidates who will complement
a University initiative focused on climate change and
who will position us to address problems of global an-
thropogenic changes as they relate to biotic diversity.
The newly hired faculty member will be able to partici-
pate in University-wide initiatives including the Climate,
Human, and Earth Systems (CHESS) Cluster
The University has formal ties to Dauphin Island Sea
Lab, which oers opportunities for new faculty to build
research connections. The candidate will have teaching
responsibilities in undergraduate Ecology and will beJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 87
expected to develop or contribute to a graduate course
in their research specialty.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Biological Sciences
or a closely related discipline, and may have relevant
postdoctoral experience. The successful candidate must
demonstrate excellent written and interpersonal com-
munication skills and collegiality. Desired qualications
include a strong record of publication, teaching experi-
ence, and demonstrated (or potential) ability to acquire
extramural funding. The candidate selected for this
position must be able to meet eligibility requirements to
work in the United States at the time the appointment
is scheduled to begin and to continue to work legally for
the proposed term of employment.
Review of applications will begin January 1, 2018, and
will continue until a suitable individual is hired. Appli-
cants should submit curriculum vitae, a description of
research interests, a statement of teaching philosophy
and experience, and the names and contact information
of three professional references. Applicants must submit
their materials online at:
http://aufacultypositions.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
2596 More information about the department and its
programs can be found at the following web site:
http://www.auburn.edu/cosam/departments/biology/-
index.htm Auburn maintains high levels of research
activity and high standards for teaching excellence.
Its 2017 enrollment of 29,776 students includes 23,964
undergraduates and 5,812 graduate and professional
students. Organized into twelve academic colleges and
schools, Auburn's 1,450 faculty members oer more
than 200 educational programs.
Auburn residents enjoy a thriving community, recog-
nized as one of the \best small towns in America," with
moderate climate and easy access to major cities or
to beach and mountain recreational facilities. Situated
along the rapidly developing 1-85 corridor between At-
lanta, Georgia, and Montgomery, Alabama, the com-
bined Auburn-Opelika-Columbus statistical area has a
population of over 500,000, with excellent public school
systems and regional medical centers.
Auburn University is an EEONet/Disability Employer
Paula Norrell <pkn0001@auburn.edu >AustralianNationalU 2
AnimalEvolutionaryPhysiology
Two academic positions in the Division of Ecology and
Evolution, Research School of Biology, The Australian
National University, Canberra.
The Australian National University is consistently
ranked among the top universities in the world. The Di-
vision of Ecology and Evolution in the Research School of
Biology is a high performing whole organism department
with a strong international reputation for developing the-
ory that transcends specic taxa. We are internationally
recognised in a number of areas including evolutionary,
behavioural and molecular ecology, phylogenetics and
population genetics, macroevolution and macroecology
and physiological ecology. We are home to a large pop-
ulation of postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers
from around the world. Our research is underpinned by
outstanding equipment, infrastructure and support sta,
and funded by an extensive range of external grants.
To sustain and grow the scale and impact of our research
and teaching, we seek to make two new continuing or
xed term (with a pathway to continuing) appointments
at Academic Levels B or C (Lecturer or Senior Lecturer,
equivalent to Assistant Professor) to complement and
build on our research strengths, one each in the follow-
ing themes: Position 1: Animal evolutionary/ecological
physiology; Position 2: Population ecology. Outstand-
ing candidates in other closely related areas also are
encouraged to apply. Successful applicants will have
received their PhD (or equivalent) no more than 15
years the time of their appointment, taking into account
career interruptions and non-traditional career paths.
The successful applicants will be, or have the potential
to become, international research leaders with their own
strong, independent research programs, and be open
to collaboration with existing faculty. We are keen to
recruit people with a strong eld program and/or those
who will take advantage of our extensive live animal
and plant facilities. We are also interested in theoreti-
cians, but they must be capable of supervising eld
and/or lab-based empirical projects. The successful ap-
plicants must be able to win external research funding.
We are interested in people who can develop collabora-
tive grants with our existing sta, and can diversify our
funding portfolio. The Division teaches a range of whole-
organism courses at all year levels, with every member88 EvolDir January 1, 2018
of academic sta involved in high-quality undergraduate
teaching. The successful applicants will have a clear
commitment to teaching excellence. We expect that the
successful applicants' research and teaching will reect
the latest theoretical, quantitative and experimental
advances in their eld. We will only appoint people who
are collaborative, collegial and community minded, and
accessible to colleagues, research students and under-
graduates, and keen to be engaged in the workings of
the school.
ANU has committed to the SAGE Pilot of Athena
SWAN Charter, and we expect that at least one of
the candidates appointed will be a woman.
ANU values diversity and inclusion and believes em-
ployment opportunities must not be limited by socio-
economic background, race, religion or gender. The
University actively encourages applications from Abo-
riginal and Torres Strait Islander people. For more
information on employment opportunities, contact
our Indigenous Employment Consultant on indige-
nous.employment@anu.edu.au. For information about
sta equity at ANU, visit http://hr.anu.edu.au/sta-
equity . For further information please contact Professor
Scott Keogh, Head, Division of Ecology and Evolution
E: Scott.Keogh@anu.edu.au
Application information.
In order to apply for this role please make sure that you
upload the following documents:
* A statement addressing the selection criteria * A one-
page statement of your research vision for the next 5-10
years * A one-page statement of your teaching philoso-
phy * A half-page statement on where you see potential
for collaborations within RSB. * Current curriculum
vitae (CV) which includes the names and contact details
of at least three referees (including a current or previ-
ous supervisor). If your CV does not include referees,
you can complete these online when prompted in the
application form.
Applications which do not address the selection criteria
may not be considered for the position.
Full details can be found at this link: http://-
jobs.anu.edu.au/cw/en/job/519012/lecturer-senior-
lecturer scott.keogh@anu.edu.auAustralianNationalU 2
PopulationEcologist
**NOTE: For both of these positions we are interested
in people who have a strong background in evolutionary
biology**
Two academic positions in the Division of Ecology and
Evolution, Research School of Biology, The Australian
National University, Canberra.
The Australian National University is consistently
ranked among the top universities in the world. The Di-
vision of Ecology and Evolution in the Research School of
Biology is a high performing whole organism department
with a strong international reputation for developing the-
ory that transcends specic taxa. We are internationally
recognised in a number of areas including evolutionary,
behavioural and molecular ecology, phylogenetics and
population genetics, macroevolution and macroecology
and physiological ecology. We are home to a large pop-
ulation of postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers
from around the world. Our research is underpinned by
outstanding equipment, infrastructure and support sta,
and funded by an extensive range of external grants.
To sustain and grow the scale and impact of our research
and teaching, we seek to make two new continuing or
xed term (with a pathway to continuing) appointments
at Academic Levels B or C (Lecturer or Senior Lecturer,
equivalent to Assistant Professor) to complement and
build on our research strengths, one each in the follow-
ing themes: Position 1: Animal evolutionary/ecological
physiology; Position 2: Population ecology. Outstand-
ing candidates in other closely related areas also are
encouraged to apply. Successful applicants will have
received their PhD (or equivalent) no more than 15
years the time of their appointment, taking into account
career interruptions and non-traditional career paths.
The successful applicants will be, or have the potential
to become, international research leaders with their own
strong, independent research programs, and be open
to collaboration with existing faculty. We are keen to
recruit people with a strong eld program and/or those
who will take advantage of our extensive live animal
and plant facilities. We are also interested in theoreti-
cians, but they must be capable of supervising eld
and/or lab-based empirical projects. The successful ap-
plicants must be able to win external research funding.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 89
We are interested in people who can develop collabora-
tive grants with our existing sta, and can diversify our
funding portfolio. The Division teaches a range of whole-
organism courses at all year levels, with every member
of academic sta involved in high-quality undergraduate
teaching. The successful applicants will have a clear
commitment to teaching excellence. We expect that the
successful applicants' research and teaching will reect
the latest theoretical, quantitative and experimental
advances in their eld. We will only appoint people who
are collaborative, collegial and community minded, and
accessible to colleagues, research students and under-
graduates, and keen to be engaged in the workings of
the school.
ANU has committed to the SAGE Pilot of Athena
SWAN Charter, and we expect that at least one of
the candidates appointed will be a woman.
ANU values diversity and inclusion and believes em-
ployment opportunities must not be limited by socio-
economic background, race, religion or gender. The
University actively encourages applications from Abo-
riginal and Torres Strait Islander people. For more
information on employment opportunities, contact
our Indigenous Employment Consultant on indige-
nous.employment@anu.edu.au. For information about
sta equity at ANU, visit http://hr.anu.edu.au/sta-
equity . For further information please contact Professor
Scott Keogh, Head, Division of Ecology and Evolution
E: Scott.Keogh@anu.edu.au
Application information.
In order to apply for this role please make sure that you
upload the following documents:
* A statement addressing the selection criteria * A one-
page statement of your research vision for the next 5-10
years * A one-page statement of your teaching philoso-
phy * A half-page statement on where you see potential
for collaborations within RSB. * Current curriculum
vitae (CV) which includes the names and contact details
of at least three referees (including a current or previ-
ous supervisor). If your CV does not include referees,
you can complete these online when prompted in the
application form.
Applications which do not address the selection criteria
may not be considered for the position.
Full details can be found at this link: http://-
jobs.anu.edu.au/cw/en/job/519012/lecturer-senior-
lecturer Scott Keogh <scott.keogh@anu.edu.au >BrownU ResAssist EvoDevo
Brown University Research Assistant position for Devel-
opmental Biology
Location: Brown University, Molecular Biology Cell
Biology Biochemistry Department (Providence, RI)
We are looking to hire an excellent full-time research
assistant who is encouraged to conduct her/his indepen-
dent research under PI's supervision. The area of re-
search includes developmental biology, molecular biology,
evolutionary developmental biology, live imaging, pro-
teomics, and RNA-IP-seq. Basic skillset and knowledge
in molecular biology (e.g. cloning, PCR) and a good
accomplishment in her/his undergraduate work is pre-
requisite. Other necessary trainings (e.g. microinjection,
confocal imaging, proteomics) will be provided by the
PI. The successful individuals will be given own projects
to conduct and nish (hopefully with lead author publi-
cations) within two-three years of appointment. This
is an excellent job opportunity for individuals who seek
to proceed to graduate school or medical school with a
good record of research accomplishment in near future.
Any interested individuals should contact me via e-mail:
mamiko yajima@brown.edu. Please enclose your CV,
title of your thesis, and name of your thesis advisor. Re-
views will begin immediately and continue until position
is lled. To be noted, the University does not support a
Visa for this position. Desired start date is after March
1, 2018.
Mamiko Yajima <mamiko yajima@brown.edu >
ColumbiaU TeachingEvolution
Lecturer in Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biol-
ogy
Columbia University invites applications for a Lecturer
in Discipline position in the Department of Ecology,
Evolution and Environmental Biology (E3B). This
is a full-time appointment with multiyear renewal
contingent on successful review. E3B represents broad
interests in ecology, evolution, behavior, conservation90 EvolDir January 1, 2018
biology, and environmental science. We seek a candi-
date with a serious commitment and proven record in
teaching, advising (ideally at a graduate level), and
research. S/he will serve as Program Director for
E3B's Master's program in Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation Biology, and will teach four to ve classes
annually including a student research development
seminar and other graduate and advanced undergrad-
uate courses. Appointment will begin July 1, 2018.
Candidates should submit a cover letter, CV, 2-page
teaching/mentoring statement (including philosophy,
experience and plans), a two-page statement outlining
prior research accomplishments and contact information
for three references by January 15, 2018 to aca-
demicjobs.columbia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFinde579.
For additional information, see e3b.columbia.edu.
Applications from women and minorities are es-
pecially encouraged. Columbia University is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action employer {
Race/Gender/Disability/Veteran.
Jae McFadden Administrative Coordinator, Assistant to:
Prof Shahid Naeem, Chair, Department of Ecology Evo-
lution and Environmental Biology Columbia University
1200 Amsterdam Avenue 1014 Schermerhorn Ext New
York, NY 10027 Tel: 212-851-5833 Fax: 212-854-8188
Jetaime E McFadden <jm3416@columbia.edu >
CornellU DiseaseEvolution
The *Department of Entomology* <https://-
entomology.cals.cornell.edu/ >at Cornell University
seeks to ll a tenure-track faculty appointment in Vector
Biology and Vector-Borne Disease. This is a nine-month,
tenure track position with 60% research/40% teaching
responsibility. Assistant or early Associate Professor
preferred, but rank is open. The new faculty member
will sustain a strong, internationally recognized, and
well-funded research program emphasizing infectious
diseases of humans and/or other animals that are trans-
mitted by arthropods such as ies, ticks and mosquitoes.
Focus should be on the interaction between an arthro-
pod vector and the disease-causing microbes they trans-
mit. Particular areas of focus may include genetics,
physiology and biochemistry of the vector and/or mi-
crobe related to infectivity and transmission. We expect
that the appointed faculty member will exhibit campus
leadership and will synergize with current faculty with
related interests. This hire is associated with the Cor-nell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions and Disease
(CIHMID) and is consistent with a campus-wide em-
phasis on expanding research and teaching in Infection
Biology. Potential exists for intellectual connections and
collaborations across multiple units at Cornell, includ-
ing the Departments of Molecular Biology and Genetics,
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Microbiology, and
Biological Statistics and Computational Biology, as well
as with Cornell's College of Veterinary Medicine and
Weill College of Medicine.
The appointment will carry a teaching responsibility of
approximately one course per year, with the courses to
be taught determined by the interests and abilities of
the applicant. There will be opportunities to contribute
to the Master of Public Health Curriculum, the Global
and Public Health Sciences major, and the MS pro-
gram of the Northeast Regional Center for Excellence
in Vector-Borne Diseases (NEVBD).
*QUALIFICATIONS:* Applicants are required to have
a Ph.D. in Biology or a related discipline by the time
of appointment and should exhibit demonstrated and
prospective excellence in research and teaching.
*APPLICATION PROCEDURE:* Start Date: July
2018 or as negotiated. Applicants should submit
a cover letter, research description (not more than
5 pages), statement of teaching philosophy and ex-
perience/interests (not more than 3 pages), and up
to three representative publications at <https://-
academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/10524 >. Applicants
should also include contact information for three individ-
uals who can provide references. Review of applications
will begin January 30, 2018 and will continue until the
position is lled. Inquiries may be directed to the Chair
of the search committee, Dr. Brian Lazzaro, at *bplaz-
zaro@cornell.edu*.
Brian P. Lazzaro, Ph.D.
Liberty Hyde Bailey Professor
Director, Cornell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions
and Disease (CIHMID)
Departments of Entomology and Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology Cornell University Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA
tel: +1-607-255-3254
em: bplazzaro@cornell.edu
http://www.lazzaro.entomology.cornell.edu
http://cihmid.cornell.edu Brian Lazzaro
<bplazzaro@cornell.edu >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 91
GeorgiaSouthernU Genetics
The position we are advertising for includes someone
who does landscape genetics, which looks at the evolu-
tion of populations as it correlates with their physical
landscape. The advertisement is a bit broader, but we
would like to encourage someone with a strong popula-
tion genetics background ll the position.
|{ Landscape Ecologist/ Assistant
Professor Search #67499 College of Science and Mathe-
matics / Biology - Statesboro Campus The Department
of Biology in the College of Science and Mathematics
invites applications and nominations for the position of
Assistant Professor of Landscape Ecology. This position
will be located on the Statesboro campus. In January
2017, the University System of Georgia Board of Regents
voted to consolidate Armstrong State University and
Georgia Southern University. The new, 27,000-student
university will be named Georgia Southern University
with campuses in Savannah, Statesboro, and Hinesville.
The expected timeline for the rst entering class will
be fall 2018. Complete details are available at http://-
consolidation.georgiasouthern.edu/. Within this setting,
the Department of Biology consists of a diverse fac-
ulty of teacher-scholars involved in a wide spectrum of
activities from molecular to ecological studies on the
coastal plain and throughout the world. The Depart-
ment provides undergraduate and graduate students
with a challenging education that is research-based and
technology-oriented. We provide a foundation for life-
long learning and appreciation of biological processes
and biological diversity through teaching, research and
outreach. The Department of Biology on the Statesboro
campus is housed in three buildings, including a new
158,000-square-foot Biological Sciences Building.
Position Description. Reporting to the department chair,
the position of Assistant Professor of Landscape Ecology
requires research, teaching and service responsibilities
as well as a doctoral degree in the Biological Sciences
or other relevant eld. The successful candidate will
develop an externally funded research program in any
area of landscape ecology, including, but not limited to,
geospatial modeling, landscape genetics, and ecological
and evolutionary processes on a landscape scale. The
successful candidate will also teach undergraduate and
graduate courses. The position is an academic 9-month,
tenure-track appointment, and the salary is competitiveand commensurate with qualications and experience.
Required Qualications: - Earned doctorate in the Bio-
logical Sciences or other relevant eld by 31 December
2017 - Demonstrated excellence in research in landscape
ecology - Potential to attract extramural funding - Ex-
pertise and commitment to teaching excellence - The
ability to teach courses at multiple levels within the dis-
ciplines of ecology and evolution, and develop a course
in landscape ecology
Preferred Qualications: - Postdoctoral experiences -
Student-centered research and/or teaching experience
Screening of applications begins January 31, 2018, and
continues until the position is lled. The preferred posi-
tion starting date is August 1, 2018.
A complete application consists of a letter addressing the
qualications cited above; a curriculum vitae; statement
of research interests and teaching interests/philosophy;
and three letters of reference. Applications must be sent
electronically as a single PDF attachment (include appli-
cant name in le name). Letters of recommendation in
PDF format should be sent separately via email to the
search chair. Other documentation may be requested.
Only complete applications and applications submit-
ted electronically will be considered. Finalists will be
required to submit to a background investigation.
Applications and nominations should be sent to:
Dr. Checo Colon-Gaud, Search #67499 Electronic
mail: jccolongaud@georgiasouthern.edu Telephone: 912-
478-5487 More information about the institution is
available through http://www.georgiasouthern.edu or
http://www.bio.georgiasouthern.edu.
Georgia Southern University seeks to recruit individuals
who are committed to working in diverse academic and
professional communities and who are committed to ex-
cellence in teaching, scholarship, and professional service
within the University and beyond. The names of ap-
plicants and nominees, vitae, and other non-evaluative
information may be subject to public inspection under
the Georgia Open Records Act.
Georgia Southern University is an Armative Action,
Equal Opportunity institution. Individuals who need
reasonable accommodations under the ADA to partic-
ipate in the search process should contact the Vice
Provost.
John J. Schenk, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Plant Bi-
ology Georgia Southern University Herbarium (GAS),
Curator Department of Biology 4324 Old Register Road
Georgia Southern University Statesboro, GA 30460-8042
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.92 EvolDir January 1, 2018
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
HarvardU 2ResTech AncientDNA
Two Research Technicians in Ancient DNA at Harvard
We are look for two people to join a team of technicians
working in an Ancient DNA laboratory at Harvard Uni-
versity and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. The successful applicants
will study DNA from human remains over the last 20,000
years. Please visit our website for more information
about our research (https://reich.hms.harvard.edu/).
We have two positions available. This is an ideal oppor-
tunity for candidates with one of three possible back-
grounds:
(1) Experienced research technicians with a background
in sterile technique and and/or genomics who seek longer
term employment in an exciting and rapidly moving
eld.
(2) Undergraduates who anticipate completing their
studies in Spring 2018 and are interested in a career in
the eld of Ancient Biomolecules and seeking experience
in a world-class ancient DNA lab.
(3) Physical anthropologists with experience in analyz-
ing skeletal material who would specialize in sample
preparation and acquisition.
We are looking for candidates intending to stay for at
least three years.
Principal Responsibilities:
Experimental Work (80% of responsibilities) - Sample
preparation in a clean room environment to prepare for
DNA extraction - Extracting of DNA and preparation
for sequencing in a clean room environment - Ampli-
cation of DNA, cleanup and enrichment of libraries -
Sequencing the DNA, and help to identify the best sam-
ples for further analysis - Working with liquid handling
robots - Keeping a meticulous record of experiments and
analyses in a lab book and database - Decontaminating
equipment and work surfaces after every experiment -
Cleaning the clean rooms and equipment on a regular
basis - Frequent discussions with laboratory colleagues
working on ancient DNA - Occasional sample prepara-
tion in non-cleanroom environment such as museums
Documentation, Administration and Meetings (20% ofresponsibilities) - Preparing, ordering, and maintaining
stocks of necessary consumables, reagents, and supplies
- Documenting, compiling, and analyzing experimen-
tal data - Updating supervisors by presenting oral and
written reports - Reading relevant scientic literature
- Working well in a team of research technicians with
identical duties
Preferred Qualications:
- Bachelor's degree in the life sciences with hands-on
research experience in basic laboratory techniques and
understanding of molecular biology principles, or a bach-
elor's degree in physical anthropology or archaeology. -
Familiarity with genomics (library preparation and se-
quencing) and sterile techniques, or alternatively skeletal
analysis. - Meticulous work habits including keeping a
detailed and accurate lab notebook - Skilled at trouble-
shooting experiments and critical thinking about exper-
iments and results - The ability to multi-task to take
care of the general well-being of the laboratory
Additional Qualications:
- Previous work in an Ancient DNA laboratory - Famil-
iarity with genetics and next generation sequencing. -
Medical Diagnostics or Microarray Fabrication (either
in academic or industry) - Cell Culture with training
in sterile techniques - Excellent written, documentation
and oral communication skills. - Computer skills, in-
cluding familiarity with Microsoft Word and Excel and
ideally UNIX - Extremely strong organizational skills
Please apply through the following website. We
will interview candidates on a rolling basis,
and hope to make decisions in January 2018.
https://hhmi-openhire.silkroad.com/epostings/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=app.j obInfo&version=2&jobidi0
David Reich <reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu >
Job:MonashU ResOcer
EvolutionaryGenomics
Research Ocer position in evolutionary genomics /
evolutionary ecology mitochondria, male infertility and
pest control
Monash University Melbourne Australia
Research in Damian Dowling's laboratory is focused
on the role the mitochondrial genome plays in evolu-
tionary adaptation and population tness. Maternal
inheritance of the mitochondrial genome renders theJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 93
mitochondrial DNA vulnerable to the accumulation of
mutations that are harmful to males, but neutral or
benecial to females.
In collaboration with partner organisations in New
Zealand (AgResearch, Landcare Research, and the Uni-
versity of Otago), we aim to harness these male-harming
mtDNA mutations as a novel resource for pest control.
Our approach is called the Trojan Female Technique;
and its goal is to insert mtDNA mutations into pest
populations, which render the males sterile, but have
no eects female reproductive success. These Trojan
Female mutations can then spread through the pest pop-
ulation, and cause a crash in pest population numbers.
We are seeking a talented and highly-motivated Research
Ocer to join our laboratory group, to help develop the
Trojan Female Technique, in the fruit y Drosophila
melanogaster. The project will integrate a variety of
techniques, spanning molecular biology and evolution-
ary biology. As the successful candidate, you will play
a lead role in creating genetic strains of ies, each car-
rying dierent sets of mtDNA mutations. You will
screen each strain for fertility (using standard methods
in evolutionary biology), and then sequence the com-
plete mitochondrial genomes of the strains exhibiting
lowest male fertility.
As the successful candidate, you will have an undergrad-
uate degree, with a successful track record of research
experience (either via undergraduate or Masters level
research projects, or via previous employment as a Re-
search Assistant).
The position is a full-time, xed-term appointment avail-
able for 12 months. Flexible working arrangements may
be negotiated.
For further details, including full position description,
see
http://careers.pageuppeople.com/513/cw/en/job/-
571456/research-ocer-biological-sciences Your
application must address the selection criteria. Please
refer to \How to apply for Monash jobs"
Information about Monash University
Currently ranked 80th in the Times Higher Education
World University Rankings, Monash University is a
member of Australia's \Group of Eight" a coalition
of research-intensive universities, and is internation-
ally recognized for excellence in research and teaching.
The School of Biological Sciences ( http://monash.edu/-
science/about/schools/biological-sciences/) is home to
a collegial and world class research environment, with
key strengths in evolutionary ecology and genomics.
MelbourneMonash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant cultural and
recreational centre, and is consistently rated one of the
world's most liveable cities ( http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/World's most livable cities)
Enquiries to: Dr Damian Dowling, Associate Professor,
damian.dowling@monash.edu
\damian.dowling@monash.edu"
<damian.dowling@monash.edu >
LMU Muenchen ResAssoc EvolBiol
Research Associate Position
Akademischer Rat auf Zeit (A13)
A research associate position is immediately available in
the Department of Evolutionary Ecology at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universitat Munchen (LMU) with a pay-
ment scale comparable to a Senior Lecturer/Reader
salary in the UK.
The position. We seek a highly motivated, mature
researcher with a proven publication record in evolu-
tionary developmental biology, comparative genomics,
transcriptional regulation, or a combination of these
elds. Research interest relating to Drosophila are pre-
ferred, but not mandatory. For candidates actively
seeking funding, this position provides a great op-
portunity to develop an independent research agenda
and to start a research group. Scientic cooper-
ations within and outside the chair are explicitly
encouraged (hRp://www.en.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/-
forschung/topics/index.html). The position comes with
5 hours of teaching duties during the semester (approx.
145 hours per annuum) including lecturing, course ad-
ministration and student supervision. With multiple
local master and graduate programs, you will meet a
group of interna.onal and highly mo.vated students,
open to interdisciplinarity.
The environment. The successful candidate will be
based in the Department of Evolutionary Ecology
(www.evolu.onary-ecology.bio.lmu.de), and aliated to
the chair of Nicolas Gompel, who studies the genetic
origin of evolutionary changes (www.gompel.org). A
main focus of the group is to characterize the molecu-
lar changes resulting in new gene regulation and phe-
notypic evolution. We combine enhancer dissection
with reporter constructs in transgenic Drosophila with
quantitative imaging and statistical modelling to under-
stand the molecular bases of regulatory changes. We94 EvolDir January 1, 2018
examine these changes at the level of closely related
Drosophila species as well as populations, and adapt
classical Drosophila melanogaster genetics to these dif-
ferent species to test evolutionary hypotheses.
Munich University (LMU) and Munich Technical Uni-
versity (TUM) are both recognized among Europe's
premier academic and research institutions being con-
sistently ranked among the top Universities worldwide.
In particular the life science branch with its newly inau-
gurated campus oers excellent technical facilities and
many interaction possibilities including the Gene Centre,
several Max-Planck-Institutes and the Helmholtz Cen-
tre (www.campusmar.nsried.de/en/ 336-2/). The Cam-
pus Martinsried where the LMU Biocenter is located
oers state-of-the art computing facilities for genome-
scale analyses, high-end imaging facili.es, and an exci.ng
mul.disciplinary environment. Munich is Bavaria's capi-
tal, a vibrant, yet relaxed city with many traditions still
alive and a high quality of living.
In contrast to the current funding climate in
many other European and non-European coun-
tries, funding rates are relatively high in Ger-
many, and there are several sources to apply
from, see e.g. hRp://www.research-in-germany.org/-
en/research-funding.html or hRp://www.dfg.de/en/-
research funding/programmes/index.jsp. In addition,
transnational European funding schemes oer aRrac.ve
opportuni.es (hRps://erc.europa.eu).
How to apply. Applicants holding a PhD with a proven
publication record are encouraged to apply. Teaching
experience is benecial. Applications including a state-
ment of motivation including relevant expertise and
scientic objectives, a CV and the contact details of at
least two references should be sent as a single .pdf le
to gompel@bio.lmu.de, subject term 'research associate'.
The position is immediately available and remains open
until lled. Start date is negotiable depending on the
applicant's situation.
Please feel free to contact me if you have any further
questions.
Best regards,
Sheren Leung
Ms. Sheren Leung Oce Evolutionary Ecology Faculty
of Biology Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitat Munchen
Grohadernerstr. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried Tel.:
+49(0)89-2180-74203
\Leung, Sheren" <leung@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >McGillU
EcolEvolutionaryInformatics
The Department of Biology at McGill University invites
applications for a tenure-track position in ECOLOGI-
CAL/EVOLUTIONARY INFORMATICS. Applicants
with strength in the development and/or application
of quantitative (computational and mathematical) ap-
proaches to the analysis and interpretation of large evolu-
tionary/ecological datasets, from genomes to ecosystems,
are encouraged to apply. We anticipate lling this posi-
tion at the Assistant Professor level. Applicants must
have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree, and a substantial
record of research excellence. Postdoctoral experience is
preferred. The successful applicant will be expected to
conduct a vigorous program of independent, externally
funded research, to communicate research ndings in
both professional and public forums, and to contribute
to teaching at both undergraduate and graduate levels.
A competitive startup package as well as access to a wide
range of shared research facilities are available. Salary
negotiable, according to qualications and experience.
Applicants should forward a curriculum vitae, short
statements of research and teaching interests, and 3
representative publications in a single PDF le (le-
name = lastname-rstname-ECOEVOINFO.pdf) to:
ecoevoinfo.biology@mcgill.ca.
Applicants should also arrange to have 3 letters of ref-
erence submitted directly to this email address. All
correspondence should include Ecological/Evolutionary
Informatics Search and the applicant's name in the sub-
ject line.
The application deadline is December 18, 2017
dan.schoen@mcgill.ca
MichiganStateU Bioinformatician-
ComputationalScientist
Bioinformatician at Michigan State University
Several faculty in the Department of Integrative Biology
at Michigan State University are looking to collectivelyJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 95
hire a highly motivated bioinformatician/computational
scientist with a biology background for a full-time posi-
tion. Typical research projects will use RNA-sequencing,
RAD-sequencing, whole genome sequencing and assem-
bly, and targeted capture sequencing to address ques-
tions in ecology, evolution, comparative genomics, and
developmental biology. We are looking for an enthusi-
astic and organized individual to join our team, who is
skilled at working for multiple people and on dierent
projects. The position will be based in East Lansing,
MI on the MSU campus and comes with a competitive
benets package.
Primary duties will include: 1. Curating sequence data
(10%) 2. Analyzing sequence data (65%) 3. Producing
tables and gures and writing data analysis methods
and results (10%) 4. Mentoring students on bioinfor-
matics methods (10%) 5. Reading scientic literature
to stay up to date on newest analysis methods (5%)
Required Qualications: The job requires knowledge
equivalent to that which normally would be acquired by
completing a four-year college degree in bioinformatics
or related eld and up to six months of related and pro-
gressively more responsible or expansive bioinformatics
experience; or an equivalent combination of education
and experience. The candidate should be well- versed in
unix/linux, as well as at least one other programming
language (e.g. R, python, perl). Applicants should
have extensive experience analyzing large ' ^A ¥'Vomic' ^A
datasets.
Desired Qualications: A Master' ^As or PhD degree in
bioinformatics or related eld. Experience in at least
some of the following key areas: 1. Analyzing complex
RNA-seq experimental data sets for dierential gene
expression 2. Analyzing RAD-seq datasets'Xaligning
to reference and creating de novo assemblies, SNP dis-
covery, genotyping, etc. 3. Genome assembly and an-
notation 4. Genome comparisons 5. Phylogenomics 6.
Epigenomics
Required applicant materials: 1) Brief cover letter de-
scribing research and data analysis experience and ca-
reer goals 2) CV 3) Names and email addresses for 3
references
How to apply Interested candidates should apply
through the MSU Applicant Page at careers.msu.edu
(job ID 480028). If you have questions, email Dr. Mariah
Meek (mhmeek@msu.edu), with \Bioinformatics posi-
tion" in the subject line. DO NOT EMAIL APPLICA-
TION MATERIAL TO DR. MEEK.
Review of application material will begin on January 8,
2018. Position is open until lled.
\Braasch, Ingo" <braasch@msu.edu >NOAA NWFSC Seattle
ConservationBiology
Senior Scientist to Assess Persistent Organic Pollutant
Transfer from Female Southern Resident Killer Whales
to their Calves - Seattle, WA Need to ll by Jan 12,
2018 for work to start Feb 12, 2018
Lynker has an opening with the NOAA Fisheries, North-
west Fisheries Science Center (NWFSC), Conservation
Biology Division (CB) to support research into the im-
pacts of persistent organic pollutant data from serum,
milk and blubber samples to quantify the transfer of
these pollutants from female delphinids to their calves
during gestation and lactation. Results shall be used
by managers to update models that predict changes in
contaminant levels in Southern Resident killer whales as
well as identify periods of higher risk from circulating
contaminants for female killer whales and their calves.
Key responsibilities include: * Calculate variables from
chemistry (lipid concentrations and persistent organic
pollutant concentrations in milk, serum, and blubber)
and body mass data from delphinids for reports on
contaminant transfer dynamics during gestation and
lactation in delphinids. * Use statistical and graphical
software to analyze data and prepare gures for reports
per instructions from the project leader. * Final reports
will be prepared by the project leader, but the contrac-
tor shall contribute some literature review summaries,
statistical analysis of data, and gures depicting data
trends for inclusion in the reports.
Must Have Skills and Requirements:
Bachelor's degree, or higher, from an accredited college
or university with a major directly related in a eld
of study as related to the requirements of specic task
order with emphasis in sheries, oceanography, social
science, natural science, mathematics, or hydrology, plus
three (3) years of experience in related eld or combina-
tion of such totaling seven (7) years combined education
and experience. Master's Degree may be substituted for
experience.
Additional required qualications include:
Strong math and data processing skills
Prociency using Microsoft Excel software to manipu-
late data
Prociency using Microsoft Word software96 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Experience constructing gures from data and summa-
rizing results from data analyses
Experience searching and summarizing peer-reviewed
scientic literature
Additional preferred qualications include:
Familiarity with scientic research on marine mammals,
particularly delphinids in human care
Science writing ability satisfactory for peer review Let
me know if this is doable and what additional informa-
tion you may need from me. Thanks! Liz - Elizabeth J.
Tarquin Director, Marine Sciences Division Lynker Tech-
nologies LLC (808) 747-3065 ltarquin@lynkertech.com
www.lynkertech.com Lynker - a HubZone- and ISO-
certied company
Liz Tarquin <ltarquin@lynkertech.com >
NorthCarolinaMuseum
InvertCollectionsManager
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences: Collec-
tions Manager for Non-Molluscan Invertebrates
Salary: $35,474.00 - $57,292.00 Location: Wake County,
NC Job Type: Permanent Full-Time Department: Dept
of Natural and Cultural Resources Closing: 1/5/2018
5:00 PM Eastern
Description of Work The N.C. Department of Natural
and Cultural Resources (NCDNCR) is the state agency
with a vision to be the leader in using the state's natural
and cultural resources to build the social, cultural, edu-
cational and economic future of North Carolina. NCD-
NCR's mission is to improve the quality of life in our
state by creating opportunities to experience excellence
in the arts, history, libraries and nature in North Car-
olina by stimulating learning, inspiring creativity, pre-
serving the state's history, conserving the state's natural
heritage, encouraging recreation and cultural tourism,
and promoting economic development.
The North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences' mis-
sion is to illuminate the natural world and inspire its
conservation. The Museum enhances the public's under-
standing and appreciation of the natural environment in
ways that emphasize the biodiversity of North Carolina
and the southeastern United States and relates the re-
gion to the natural world. The mission is accomplished
by maintaining the state's zoological and geological col-
lections; conducting statewide biological survey researchand environmental studies; oering exhibits that fea-
ture plants and animals of North Carolina; presenting
natural history programs for children and adults; pro-
viding experiential workshops in the natural sciences for
teachers; and producing and disseminating publications
about nature and environment.
The Museum's Research & Collections (R&C) section
includes research scientists, collections curators, collec-
tions managers and support professionals. The major
responsibilities of the R&C section are to maintain and
expand the Natural Sciences research collections of the
Museum, conduct original research, disseminate research
results, participate in science communication, public out-
reach, and education, and assist other Museum sections,
in programming and exhibit development. R&C sta
and facilities are spread across three Museum buildings:
The Nature Exploration Center (NEC), the Nature Re-
search Center (NRC), and the Research Laboratory.
This position is located primarily in the Research Labo-
ratory facility.
This position will be primarily responsible for the
management and maintenance of the Museum's Non-
Molluscan Invertebrate Collection and associated cura-
torial duties (databasing, specimen inventory and man-
agement, managing loan activity, collection expansion,
participating in funded collections grants, seeking ad-
ditional collections stewardship funding, etc.). This
position will be responsible for coordinating, training,
and supervision of volunteers and others who might work
with this Collection. This position will be expected and
encouraged to participate in active research projects in
invertebrate biology, taxonomy, and/or ecology, lead-
ing to publication of results in peer-reviewed scientic
journals and popular media outlets. The position will
participate in various educational and outreach activities
of the Museum, including (but not limited to): annual
signature events; regular, short science presentations of-
fered to the public; and 'behind-the-scenes' tours of the
Collections facilities. This position might also be called
upon by other state agencies or external organizations
to provide collections information, training and other
assistance.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities / Competencies:
1. Demonstrated knowledge of invertebrate taxonomy
and/or biology. 2. Demonstrated experience with mi-
croscopy, scientic illustration, and/or other method-
ological skills related to working with invertebrate speci-
mens. 3. Ability to learn computer languages. 4. Ability
to converse using professional interpersonal and public
communications skills. 5. Ability to organize and work
independently to accomplish assigned tasks in a timely
manner.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 97
Minimum Education and Experience Requirements
Graduation from a four-year college/university with a
degree in biology, zoology, or a science curriculum re-
lated to the area of expertise and two years of experience
in specialty area; a master's degree in natural science
area may be substituted for experience; or an equivalent
combination of education and experience. Management
Preferences: * Master's degree * Demonstrated experi-
ence managing or curating natural sciences
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NTNU Trondheim Norway
EvolutionaryEntomology
The NTNU University Museum, Department of Natural
History (Trondheim, Norway) seeks a highly motivated
entomologist to perform biosystematic research in one or
more of the large insect orders, preferably Lepidoptera,
Coleoptera or Hymenoptera, and to be curator of parts
of our terrestrial invertebrate collection.
Please see this page for more information: https://-
www.jobbnorge.no/ledige-stillinger/stilling/145378/-
associate-professor-in-biological-diversity Best regards
Torbjrn
{ Torbjrn Ekrem, PhD Professor of biosystematics
NTNU University Museum, Department of Natural His-
tory http://www.ntnu.edu/employees/torbjorn.ekrem
Coordinator Norwegian Barcode of Life (NorBOL <
http://www.norbol.org >) Co-editor Chironomus Jour-
nal of Chironomidae Research <http://www.ntnu.no/-
ojs/index.php/chironomus/index >
Torbjrn Ekrem <torbjorn.ekrem@ntnu.no >
OceanU China
BioinformaticsEvolution
TENURE TRACK PROFESSOR IN BIOINFORMAT-
ICS AND/OR EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGYOcean University of China (OUC) is one of the leading
research institutions in marine science and technology
in Asia. It is located in the coastal city Qingdao in
northern China. Detailed information about the uni-
versity could be found at: http://eweb.ouc.edu.cn/-
weneralwnformation/list.htm Positions to be lled
by the Institute of Evolution and Marine Biodiver-
sity (http://web.ouc.edu.cn/iemb/gywwww/list.htm),
which was founded in 2010 and particularly strong in
biodiversity and developmental biology research. We
are now expanding to bioinformatics and evolutionary
biology. TWO junior-level positions are open. Work-
ing environment is bilingual (English + Chinese). Du-
ties $B!'(B
The candidate should be able to develop a research
program in bioinformatics or evolutionary biology or
related elds, especially in relation to marine organisms.
The candidate is competent in the application of pop-
ulation genetics, functional genomics or environmental
genomics to issues related to life processes. The candi-
date should also be interested and serious in providing
technical support for other lab $B!G(Bs research falling
in his/her scope. We are also building a computation
cluster, which would need involvement from the candi-
date, so any past experience in this is plus. Previous
experience in guiding undergraduate/graduate students
is welcome. Teaching is usually no more than one course
per semester. Requirments: Ph. D. in Population Ge-
netics, Bioinformatics, Biology, Ecology and Evolution,
etc., with postdoc experience in related topics;
A strong publication record;
Excellent knowledge of written and spoken English;
Contact information of two referees
Work location: Yushan Campus of OUC, Yushan Rd.
(old downtown), 266003 Qingdao, China Duration of
contract: 5 years (tenure-track position, could be con-
tinued) Salary: Salary is based on the qualications
and experience of each candidate. Enquiry is welcome.
Application: Please include detailed curriculum vitae,
contact information of two referees, and a brief state-
ment describing your interest in the position, teaching
philosophy, future research plan, etc. All applications
will be treated condentially. Interested candidates must
submit their complete application package before March
10th, 2018, to the attention of: Dr. Hongan Long,
Contact email: 2018iembhire@gmail.com
Institute of Evolution and Marine Biodiversity,
Ocean University of China, Qingdao
H Long <longhongan@gmail.com >98 EvolDir January 1, 2018
SanDiegoZoo Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Scientist - Genetic Rescue - San Diego
Zoo
The Conservation Genetics group at the San Diego
Zoo Institute for Conservation Research is seeking an
experienced bioinformatics scientist to join the eort
for genetic rescue of the critically endangered northern
white rhinoceros.
The Bioinformatics Scientist will work in the Conserva-
tion Genetics group at the San Diego Zoo Institute for
Conservation Research as part of the multi-institution
team utilizing induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs)
as a method for genetic rescue of the northern white
rhinoceros (NWR). This position is for someone who
enjoys using bioinformatics as a tool to understand the
biological relevance of gene expression and genomic dif-
ferences. Areas of focus may include whole genome
sequencing analysis and annotation, transcriptomics,
gene networks, epigenetics and CRISPR gRNA design
for reporter lines.
The northern white rhinoceros genetic rescue project is a
collaborative venture designed to prevent the otherwise
certain extinction of this form of rhinoceros. A white
paper describing the scope of the project is available in
an open access paper: Saragusty, et al., 2016; Rewind-
ing the Process of Mammalian Extinction. Zoo Biology
35:280-292. Previously, in collaboration with the labora-
tory of Jeanne Loring at the Scripps Research Institute,
the reprogramming of broblast cells from northern
white rhinoceros, producing induced pluripotent stem
cells was reported. More recently, this ongoing collabo-
ration has resulted in the reprogramming of broblasts
from additional northern white rhino individuals using
non-integrating vectors as described in this preprint.
Please share this information with others who may be
interested. Applications close on January 15, 2018. Ad-
ditional information and directions on submitting an
application may be found via this link. -
https://www.hrapply.com/sandiegozoo/-
AppJobView.jsp?link=3D8305&page=-
3DAppJobList.jsp&skimSessionName=-
com.hrlogix.view.tags.bootstrap.table.JobListTable&skimName=
requisition.requisition id&skimNdx&op=reset Oliver
A. Ryder, PhD Director of Conservation Genetics
oryder@sandiegozoo.orgoryder@ucsd.edu
SGN Frankfurt
MolecularBiosystematics
JOB OFFER PhD Position in Molecular Biosystemat-
ics The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung
(SGN) is a member of the Leibniz Association and is
based in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. SGN conducts
natural history research with almost 800 employees and
research institutions in six federal states, and is also cus-
todian of the UNESCO World Heritage Site at Messel.
The Senckenberg Research Institute invites applications
for a PhD Position in a project funded by the German
Science Foundation (DFG).
PhD Position in Molecular Biosystematics (part-time,
65%) The project Lecanomics new ways of species de-
tection and recognition in a ubiquitous group of lichens
aims to connect both ends of the taxonomic work-ow:
eld exploration and verication of potential new species
by genomic methods. Based on reference genomes we
want to develop genomic and genetic markers for species
identication and delimitation that will be tested on
samples from underexplored regions of the world. World-
wide sampling and feedback to collectors is organized
by a team of, at present, 20 international specialists
through a self-developed webbased work-ow manage-
ment system. The platform also enables participation of
amateur (citizen) scientists. Insights from this project
are supposed to streamline the taxonomic work-ow for
inconspicuous organisms.
The project requires close communication and oers op-
portunities to cooperate with international team mem-
bers and amateur scientists. Lecanomics is embedded
in the DFG priority program Taxon-Omics (http://-
www.taxon-omics.de/projects.html). Lab visits and at-
tendance of workshops held by the 27 currently funded
PIs is strongly encouraged. PhD candidates (m/f) also
have access to the training program of GRADE, the
graduate academy of Goethe-University, Frankfurt.
Specic tasks will include: - generating draft refer-
ence genomes and developing novel genetic markers
for species delimitation in lichens - using genome-wide
datasets to study species delimitation in selected groups
of the lichen genus Lecanora - assisting in the admin-
istration of our web-based communication and work-
ow management system and cooperate with an inter-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 99
national team of specialists Your prole: - a Masters
degree or equivalent in a eld related to biodiversity
research - experience in molecular genetic lab methods
(preferably including library preparation and genome
reduction techniques) - basic programming skills in and
experience with databases (these assets are desirable
but not mandatory) - good command of English (oral
and written)
Please apply if you like to: - work in the eld and in the
lab - acquire new skills and methods - develop your own
scientic ideas - share and exchange these ideas with
scientists and amateurs
Salary and benets are according to a part-time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E 13, 65%).
The position is a 3-year xed-term post, starting April
1st, 2018.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference.
The place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung.
To apply, please e-mail a single PDF le referencing this
position (ref. #01-17036) until and including December
14th, 2017.
Please include a cover letter outlining your motivation,
a detailed CV, your full transcripts and grades, contact
details of two potential references, a summary of your
Master/Diploma thesis, and, if available, a list of publi-
cations to the address below: Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frank-
furt am Main E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de, cc
to: christian.printzen@senckenberg.de For scientic en-
quiries please contact Dr. Christian Printzen, chris-
tian.printzen@senckenberg.de.
Mit freundlichen Gru ~Aen / Best regards
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG
Gesellschaft fur Naturforschung (Rechtsfahiger Verein
gema ~A - 22 BGB) Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frank-
furt am Main
Besucheradresse: Voltastra ~Ae 1, 60486 Frankfurt am
Main (5.
Obergeschoss)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Gruppe Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Mitarbeiter/in Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1313 di Biase, Maria
- 1313 Helm, Jessica
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1467 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger,
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch, Stephanie Schwedhelm, Prof.
Dr. Katrin Bohning-Gaese, Prof. Dr.
Uwe Fritz, Prof. Dr. Ingrid Kroncke Prasidentin: Dr.
h. c. Beate Heraeus Aufsichtsbehorde: Magistrat der
Stadt Frankfurt am Main (Ordnungsamt)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBath 2 2yr PrizeFellowships
== University of Bath Prize Fellowships in the Faculty
of Science, Evolutionary Biology
== Our Prize Fellowships oer early-stage researchers
the opportunity to join a cohort of like-minded rising re-
search stars. These two-year research fellowships in our
priority research areas are part of a scheme intended to
fast-track fellows to a permanent appointment at Bath.
As a member of this elite group, you will be on track
to become a key member of our research community
with a permanent academic position. Our supportive
community successfully nurtures ambitious early stage
researchers and provides for the requirements of their
developing research programme. In the Faculty of Sci-
ence we will appoint a total of seven Fellows to further
strengthen and develop areas of existing research ex-
cellence. One appointment will be made within the
Evolutionary Biology theme of the Milner Centre for
Evolution and the remaining six within the other priority
areas.100 EvolDir January 1, 2018
== The Milner Centre for Evolution welcomes ap-
plicants in all ares of evolution research but appli-
cants with interests in experimental evolution, statis-
tical approaches to evolution and evolutionary ecol-
ogy/genomics are especially welcome to apply.
== Closing date for applications is 31/12/17; Interview
dates are 15th - 26th January 2018 for rst stage inter-
views (via Skype or telephone), and week commencing
5th February for second stage interviews.
==Further details can be found at https://-
www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SF5354 |{
== University of Bath Prize Fellowships in the Faculty
of Science, Bioinformatics
== Our Prize Fellowships oer early-stage researchers
the opportunity to join a cohort of like-minded rising re-
search stars. These two-year research fellowships in our
priority research areas are part of a scheme intended to
fast-track fellows to a permanent appointment at Bath.
As a member of this elite group, you will be on track
to become a key member of our research community
with a permanent academic position. Our supportive
community successfully nurtures ambitious early stage
researchers and provides for the requirements of their
developing research programme. In the Faculty of Sci-
ence we will appoint a total of seven Fellows to further
strengthen and develop areas of existing research excel-
lence.
== Driven by technological advances, the modern life
sciences have been transformed by the availability of
ever larger datasets. These include huge archives of
population data such as patient records, high resolution
images of cells, tissues and organs, and the almost in-
calculable variety of genes, genomes and metagenomes
that make up natural biological diversity. The oppor-
tunities opened up by these 'Big Data' bring several
challenges and have led to the growth of the interdisci-
plinary eld of bioinformatics that combines computer
science, statistics and mathematics to analyse and inter-
pret biological data. Nowhere is this better exemplied
than in the eld of comparative genomics where analysis
of high-throughput sequencing data has already made
a considerable impact in understanding the diversity
and evolution of organisms and the genomics underlying
phenotype variation.
The University of Bath has made signicant advances
in enhancing bioinformatics within several departments.
The Prize Fellow can be drawn from multiple disciplines
and will have expertise in developing big data tools
and interfaces for: querying, manipulating and mining
big data; software development; contextualization and
integration for hypothesis driven research.== Closing date for applications is 31/12/17; Interview
dates are 15th - 26th January 2018 for rst stage inter-
views (via Skype or telephone), and week commencing
5th February for second stage interviews.
== Further details can be found at https://-
www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SF5354; For
informal enquires please contact Prof Sam Sheppard
(s.k.sheppard@bath.ac.uk)
Tiany Taylor <T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk >
UBielefeld 2Tech Individualisation
SFB Transregio 212: 9 Postdoc, 16 PhD, 2 Technician
positions
A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across Behaviour,
Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Confor-
mance, Niche Construction (NC3)
A collaborative research centre (SFB) has recently been
funded by the German Research Foundation for the pe-
riod 2018 to 2021 to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. As part of this collaborative research
centre, a total of 9 Postdoc positions (E13), 16 PhD po-
sitions (E13/65%) and 2 half-time technician positions
(E8 or E9/50%) are available at Bielefeld University, the
University of Muenster and the University of Jena from
1st of February 2018 or as soon as possible thereafter
across 19 Projects (see below for more details). The
SFB will provide exceptional opportunities for interdisci-
plinary collaboration and academic networking, together
with structured training, scientic exchange and early
career support programmes. Full details of the SFB
can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212 .
Thematic background
Individuals dier. This seemingly trivial statement has
nevertheless led to paradigm shifts, as three dierent
elds of organismal biology have seen a marked change in
key concepts over the last years. In behavioural biology,
it has been realised that there are profound dierences
between individuals and that these can be stable over
time and across contexts, giving rise to the concept of
animal personalities. In ecology, an increasing focus is
likewise on the considerable variation in the ecological
niche realised by species, populations, and even individ-
uals. In evolutionary biology, where individual variation
has always been central, there is an increasing aware-
ness of the complexity with which genotypes interactJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 101
with the environment to produce unique phenotypes.
Therefore, a concept of an individualised niche is needed,
rather than focusing only on a mean value for a given
population.
The central research goal of the collaborative research
centre is to redene the niche concept on the individual
level. In pursuing this conceptual goal, the CRC relies
on a collaboration of empirical biologists, theoreticians,
and philosophers of science. We want to gain a com-
prehensive, empirically adequate and philosophically
reected understanding of how individual phenotypes
interact with their environment and what the ensuing
consequences for ecological and evolutionary processes
are. We hypothesise that, across taxa, the interaction
between the individualised phenotype and the environ-
ment results in individualised niches via three mecha-
nisms of adjustment and adaptation: niche choice, niche
conformance and niche construction.
Prole
We seek bright and highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searchers, biological technicians and students with very
good Master (or equivalent) degrees who ideally have am-
ple experience in relevant topics (e.g. animal behaviour,
behavioural ecology, chemical ecology, population ecol-
ogy, evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genomics, theo-
retical ecology, philosophy of science). Ideal candidates
will be able to work both independently and as part of
a multidisciplinary team.
To apply for any of the positions, please provide: (i)
a letter of motivation including a statement of your
research interests, how you would contribute to the par-
ticular project, relevant skills and experience;(ii) a CV
including publication list; (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be emailed as a
single PDF le to the respective PI of the project.
The application deadline is 07th of January 2018 or as
otherwise specied for specic projects. Interviews will
take place in January 2018. The preferred start date
is 1st of February 2018 but is exible and will depend
on the timeframe of the most qualied applicant. The
SFB-webpage (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212),
or Oliver Kruger (oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de) pro-
vide further details. PhD programmes exist in Muenster
(www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/mgse) and Bielefeld
(www.uni-bielefeld.de/(en)/biologie/phd).
The Universities of Bielefeld, Munster and Jena are
equal opportunity employers. We particularly welcome
applications from women and disabled people. Given
equal suitability, qualications and professional achieve-
ment, women or disabled people will be given preference,unless particular circumstances apply.
Project A01: Fitness consequences of niche choice and
conformance in a marine mammal
What are tness consequences of breeding under high
vs. low social density? Can pups adaptively conform to
their social environment? Is a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCambridge FieldAssist
EvolutionButteryLearning
The Evolution of Brains and Behaviour Lab (http://-
shmontgomery.co.uk/index.html) at the University of
Cambridge is seeking a eld assistant to help with be-
havioural studies of Heliconius butteries in Gamboa,
Panama. The successful candidate will spend approx-
imately three months in Panama, beginning in early
February 2018. The position is open to all students
with a background in zoology and interest in animal
behaviour or neurobiology.
The studies will form part of a project investigating the
learning capabilities of Heliconius butteries. Unique
amongst the Lepidoptera, Heliconius butteries actively
feed on pollen which is collected from a limited number
of a rare plants. In utilising these plants, Heliconius
establish \traplines"; routes through the forest connect-
ing several plants which are used with a high degree
of spatial and temporal regularity. This behaviour sug-
gests pollen feeding is dependent on an enhanced, visual
orientated spatial memory and sophisticated learning
ability.
As part of this project, we will investigate the learning
ability of Heliconius in non-spatial contexts. We will
conduct colour, shape and olfactory associative learning
experiments on Heliconius, as well as closely related
non-pollen-feeding species, at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute in Gamboa, Panama (STRI). Field
assistants will be involved in collecting wild butteries
from surrounding forests, tending to stock buttery
populations and assisting with behavioural experiments.
This is an excellent opportunity for a recent graduate
to gain experience in behavioural experimentation, ex-
perimental design and eld collecting.102 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Dates: starting and nishing dates are exible, but ide-
ally the successful candidate will be available for three
months, beginning in early February 2018.
Funding: the successful applicant will receive 800 USD
per month, which comfortably covers living costs while
in Panama. STRI requires that all researchers have
health insurance, this is not provided but can be pur-
chased through STRI. Financial assistance with trans-
port to Gamboa will be available if required.
Accommodation: application can be made for accom-
modation through the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute or arranged privately. Accommodation costs
are approximately $250-300 per month. Gamboa is a
small town with all facilities within comfortable walking
distance.
Interested applicants should have training in biology or
a related eld, and should send a CV and brief state-
ment of research interests to Fletcher Young (etcherjy-
oung@gmail.com). Applicants will be interviewed via
Skype in early January.
Applications will close December 29 ^th 2017.
Fletcher Young <fjy22@cam.ac.uk >
UCollege London
PlantOrFungalEvolutionaryBiol
Dear Colleagues,
We would be very grateful if you could bring the fol-
lowing position at University College London to the
attention of suitable candidates.
Quain Professor or Associate Professor of Plant or Fun-
gal Evolutionary Biology University College London
http://bit.ly/UCL-Quain Closing Date: 12 January
2018
We seek to appoint a scientist as Quain Professor or
Associate Professor of Plant or Fungal Evolutionary Biol-
ogy. The successful candidate will have an international
reputation in the eld of Plant or Fungal Evolutionary
Biology and will provide leadership in expanding the
study and teaching in this area across UCL.
The Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment (GEE) is one of four Research Depart-
ments in the Division of Biosciences at UCL, one of the
world's leading centres for basic biological sciences and
part of the UCL Faculty of Life Sciences. The post willbe held in the Centre for Life's Origins and Evolution
(http://bit.ly/UCL-CLOE), a cross-departmental insti-
tute within GEE. The candidate's research will t into
one of the three themes of CLOE: origins of life and of
major innovations; pattern of evolution at all time scales,
across the tree of life; and the processes underpinning
the emergence of biological complexity/diversity. Areas
of interest include, but are not restricted to: compara-
tive genomics; diversication of major groups; evolution
of plant/fungal interactions; the genetic basis of key
transitions; plastid origins; evodevo. We welcome appli-
cants working on any taxa from unicells to angiosperms.
The research may be computational, experimental or
both.
Many thanks
Max Telford
To apply follow: http://bit.ly/UCL-Quain-apply Max
Telford Professor of Zoology Department of Genetics,
Evolution and Environment, University College London,
Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT,
UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax:
+44 (0)20 7679 7096 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/-
academic-sta/telford/telford.html Open access journal
EvoDevo: http://www.evodevojournal.com/ \Telford,
Max" <m.telford@ucl.ac.uk >
UGeorgia PlantEvolution
MAJOR RESPONSIBILITIES: The incumbent will ad-
dress fundamental ecological and evolutionary questions
in plant ecology with an emphasis on plant roots and
their interactions with the soil environment, specic soil
organisms, and/or the root microbiome. Field-based
research should be integrated with other approaches
(e.g. modeling, computational, molecular, genomic).
The successful candidate will be expected to maintain
a high-impact, externally funded research program in
belowground plant ecology; mentor undergraduate stu-
dents, graduate students, and/or postdoctoral scholars
across relevant disciplines; and teach undergraduate and
graduate-level courses.
QUALIFICATIONS: Candidates must have a PhD in
Plant Biology, Plant Pathology, Ecology, or related eld.
Candidates to be considered for Associate Professor
must have an established extramurally-funded research
program.
SALARY: Salary commensurate with qualications andJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 103
experience.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Inquiries about the
position should be directed to Dr. Jim Leebens-
Mack, Chair of the Search Committee (jleebens-
mack@uga.edu). All application materials must be sub-
mitted via the university's faculty job portal at https:/-
/facultyjobs.uga.edu/postings/3265. Materials to be
uploaded include: a) cover letter, b) resume/vitae, c)
statement of research accomplishments and goals, d)
statement of teaching accomplishments and philosophy
that relate to NSF-AAAS Vision and Change, e) 3 high-
est impact publications combined into 1 PDF, and f)
names and e-mail addresses of four referees who will
receive an online link for submitting letters of reference.
Review of applications will begin on February 28, 2018,
and continue until the position is lled.
INSTITUTIONAL INFORMATION: UGA, a Land/Sea
Grant institution located 90 miles northeast of Atlanta,
is ranked 16th among public universities in the U.S.
News & World Report's 2018 edition of America's Best
Colleges. The Departments of Plant Biology and Plant
Pathology encompass a broad range of disciplines and
have historical strengths in plant ecology, evolutionary
biology and plantassociated microbiology. UGA oers
a vibrant research environment with potential collabo-
rations with faculty across the plant sciences (https://-
plantcenter.uga.edu/), the Odum School of Ecology, and
the Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, among
others. Opportunities for o-campus interactions in-
clude the Savannah River Ecology Lab, the Coweeta
Hydrologic Lab, the Sapelo Island Microbial Obser-
vatory, and several research farms and Research and
Education Centers in the College of Agricultural &
Environmental Sciences. Athens, GA, is consistently
ranked highly for its quality of life and vibrant culture
(https://www.visitathensga.com).
UGA is an EEO/AA/Vet/Disability Institution. As
such, we are especially interested in candidates who
can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the
academic community. We not only strongly encourage
women, minorities and other diverse candidates to con-
sider applying for this position, but we also maintain
that all candidates should share our commitment to di-
versity and inclusion. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, gender
identity, sexual orientation or protected veteran status.
Persons needing accommodations or assistance with the
accessibility of materials related to this search are en-
couraged to contact Central HR (facultyjobs@uga.edu).
Please do not contact the department or search commit-
tee with such requests.\jleebensmack@uga.edu" <jleebensmack@uga.edu >
UHohenheim Bioinformatics
The Faculty of Agricultural Sciences invites applications
for the position of a
Full Professor (W3) of Bioinformatics
at the Institute of Animal Science to be lled as soon
as possible.
The successful candidate will teach management and
analysis of omics-data in agriculture in the Faculty of
Agricultural Sciences' degree programs. Participation
in teaching in the Faculty of Natural Sciences and the
Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences is
also required. The candidate should be able to teach
both in German and in English.
The research focus of the Professorship should be on the
development of bioinformatic methods and algorithms
and the analysis of massive DNA and RNA data sets
from livestock and associated microorganisms. This
includes assembling and functional annotation of se-
quenced genes and transcripts as well as taxonomic and
functional classication of data from microbiological
multi-omics projects. Interdisciplinary collaboration
with associated research groups of the University of
Hohenheim is expected.
The position oers attractive conditions for rst-time
full professor appointees. Scientists with interest in the
research focus and excellent methodological skills in
Bioinformatics are encouraged to apply. Prerequisites
for applicants are habilitation or an equivalent research
and teaching record which may have been established
during a Junior or Assistant Professorship.
The advertised position is tenured. If appointed as full
professor for the rst time, the University of Hohenheim
reserves its right to probationary employment. With
equal qualications, preference will be given to candi-
dates with disabilities.
The University of Hohenheim seeks to increase the pro-
portion of women in research and teaching, and strongly
encourages female scientists to apply.
Please attach the following documents to your applica-
tion: a statement of your future research interests, a
curriculum vitae, a documentation of academic achieve-
ments (copies), a list of publications, a list of third-party
funded projects, a teaching record, information on teach-104 EvolDir January 1, 2018
ing evaluations, and three key publications.
Please apply online at www.uni-hohenheim.de/prof-
appt-portal before the 31 st of January 2018.
Questions regarding the position may be directed to
Prof. Dr. Reiner Doluschitz (Reiner.Doluschitz@uni-
hohenheim.de). University of Hohenheim Faculty of
Agricultural Sciences 70593 Stuttgart jGermany
{ Dr. Karl Schmid Professor of Crop Biodiversity and
Breeding Informatics Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed
Science and Population Genetics (350) University of Ho-
henheim Fruwirthstrasse 21, D-70599 Stuttgart Tel: +49
711 459-23487 Email: karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Web: evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de
Karl Schmid <karl@minzer-schmid.de >
UMaine PlantEvolutionaryBiol
I am excited to announce a job listing for an Assistant
Professor of Plant Evolutionary Biology and Systematics
at my department at the University of Maine:
http://bit.ly/2A2WcsQ As chair of the search com-
mittee, I welcome questions about the position, our
department, or the university of Maine.
Jacquelyn L. Gill Assistant Professor of Paleoecology
& Plant Ecology School of Biology & Ecology Climate
Change Institute 134 Sawyer Research Labs Univer-
sity of Maine Orono, ME 04469 (207) 581-2305 (oce)
contemplativemammoth.wordpress.com (blog) @Jacque-
lynGill (Twitter)
Jacquelyn Gill <jacquelyn.gill@maine.edu >
UMassachusetts Amherst ResFellow
CellMovementEvol
RESEARCH FELLOW, University of Massachusetts
Amherst
The Fritz-Laylin Lab (fritzlaylinlab.org) at the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts Amherst is recruiting a highly
motivated Research Fellow. The Fritz-Laylin lab studies
cell motility at the interface of evolutionary biology and
quantitative cell biology to dene minimal requirementsfor cell movement, and to trace the evolutionary history
of this complex behavior. These eorts require devel-
oping molecular tools for little studied organisms with
unique evolutionary relationships and cell behaviors.
The initial responsibilities of the Research Fellow will
focus on establishing protocols for molecular transforma-
tion and genetic manipulation of microbial eukaryotes,
as well as measuring changes in gene expression during
life stage transitions. Experience working with non-
model organisms is NOT required but the successful
candidate will be able to quickly learn how to apply
their knowledge of common experimental techniques to
new systems. The successful candidate will have the
opportunity to work closely with the PI but is also ex-
pected to be proactive and independent, and able to
work both individually and collaboratively with a team.
Dr. Fritz-Laylin is committed to helping all lab mem-
bers build the skills needed to achieve their long-term
career goals. Such skills include biological knowledge,
molecular and cell biology techniques, project manage-
ment, as well as science communication in the form of
oral presentations, scientic publication, and grant writ-
ing. Dr. Fritz-Laylin meets with lab members weekly
to discuss research progress and training needs. Enthu-
siastic applicants with diverse perspectives who wish to
join a dynamic research group are encouraged to apply
Required Qualications
Bachelor's degree in Biology or related discipline with a
minimum of 2 years laboratory experience.
Preferred Qualications
Preference may be given to candidates with experience
in molecular biology (cloning, gels, western blot). Candi-
dates with previous experience in gene expression and/or
CRISPR technology would be highly competitive.
This is a non-beneted, full-time position. Salary is
commensurate with experience. Initial appointment is
for one year; reappointment beyond the rst year is con-
tingent upon availability of funding and job performance.
Primary responsibilities will include, but are not limited
to: molecular cloning, translating gene expression tech-
nologies to non-model organisms, and measuring gene
expression. Active participation in laboratory meetings
is required of all lab members.
Candidates must apply online by submitting a cover
letter, CV, and the contact details of three references
willing to provide letters of recommendation to:
http://umass.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=92404 Review of ap-
plications will begin January 9, 2018 and continue until
the position is lled. Applications received by JanuaryJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 105
9, 2018 will be given priority consideration.
The University of Massachusetts Amherst is an Ar-
mative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer of women,
minorities, protected veterans, and individuals with dis-
abilities and encourages applications from these and
other protected group members.
Lisa Barry <lisak@bio.umass.edu >
UMissouri StLouis PlantSystematics
Nominations and applications are invited for the E.
Desmond Lee Endowed Professorship in Botanical Stud-
ies to be lled by an outstanding scientist in an area
of research that incorporates molecular and genomic
approaches to the study of plant diversity, including
phylogenetics and systematics. The appointment may
be made at either the associate or full professor rank.
This tenured position was established to enhance the
partnership between the University of Missouri ^A'St.
Louis and the Missouri Botanical Garden, where the
endowed professor will have research associate status.
The professorship is one of 36 endowed professorships
comprising the Des Lee Collaborative Vision (DLCV),
which are distinct from more traditional academic posi-
tions in having a primary responsibility for community
outreach and engagement.
The University of Missouri ^A'St. Louis is a leader in
partnerships with key institutions in the St. Louis
Region. Alliances and programs have resulted from col-
laborations with the Missouri Botanical Garden, Saint
Louis Zoo, St. Louis Science Center, Danforth Plant
Science Center, and many others. The partnership
with the Missouri Botanical Garden includes collabora-
tion with the Whitney R. Harris World Ecology Center
at UMSL, which promotes research and education in
tropical biology and conservation, and participation in
our outstanding graduate program in ecology, evolu-
tion, systematics, and conservation that attracts top
scholars from all over the world. The Department of
Biology also has an active research group in cell and
molecular biology and participates in a joint program in
biochemistry and biotechnology. The Missouri Botan-
ical Garden, with more than 45 Ph.D. scientists, has
a renowned research program, an outstanding library,
and a world-class herbarium with more than 7 million
plant specimens.
The Des Lee Endowed Professor in Botanical Studies
will be expected to pursue an active program of researchin botanical studies and oversee a laboratory at the
University that facilitates the training of students in
molecular techniques. Areas of particular interest are
plant systematics and evolution, biodiversity studies,
population genetics, ecology and conservation. In keep-
ing with existing strengths in our program, research
emphasis on tropical organisms, communities or oras
is particularly welcome. The endowed professor will
be actively engaged in community outreach and will
have teaching responsibilities similar to other tenured,
research-active faculty in the department. The professor
is expected to take an active and integrative approach
and exhibit, in his or her scholarship, both intellectual
rigor and accessibility to wide range of diverse audiences.
In keeping with the Des Lee Collaborative Vision, the
successful candidate will have demonstrated interest in,
and skills relevant to, engaging scholars outside his or
her focused research specialty, and in engaging a public
outside the academy. Therefore, we seek a broadly inter-
active colleague who is interested in crossing disciplinary
boundaries within science and from science to the larger
community. Laboratory and oce space at the Univer-
sity, in addition to all research facilities at the Missouri
Botanical Garden, will be available to the successful
candidate. The position includes an annual budget in
support of the collaboration between the University and
the Garden.
The application review process is ongoing and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. The position will be
available beginning Fall 2018, but the start date is nego-
tiable. For full consideration, candidates must provide
a cover letter outlining qualications and interests, de-
tailed curriculum vitae, statement of current and future
research plans, statement of experience and plans in
community outreach, along with names and contact in-
formation for three references from whom letters may
be requested.
Address any questions to pparker@umsl.edu and rick-
lefs@umsl.edu. Formal submission of application ma-
terials must be done via the University ^A1s website:
www.umsl.jobs. Click on the E. Desmond Lee Endowed
Professorship in Botanical Studies, and follow the in-
structions provided. Job posting ID is 24884.
Christine.Edwards@mobot.org106 EvolDir January 1, 2018
UNevada EvolutionaryPhysiology
The School of Life Sciences at the University of Nevada,
Las Vegas is searching for a new faculty position. The
position is for a Neurophysiologist and other research
areas may be considered. Preference will be given to
those who complement current strengths in the School.
The School of Life Sciences is highly integrative with a
strong ecology and evolutionary biology program. Please
encourage those with an interest in evolutionary neuro-
physiology to apply.
https://www.higheredjobs.com/-
details.cfm?JobCode6615075 Review of Applications
will begin on January 15, 2018
*ROLE of the POSITION*
The successful candidate is expected to carry out an
active and independent research program supported by
extramural funding. The successful candidate will teach
at the graduate and undergraduate levels and partici-
pate in service activities commensurate with the role
of an Assistant Professor. Although other research ar-
eas may be considered, the ideal candidate will develop
an experimental research program in neurophysiology.
Preference will be given to those that strengthen or com-
plement current research activities in the School. Addi-
tional information about the School may be obtained
from our website, https://www.unlv.edu/lifesciences .
*QUALIFICATIONS* This position requires a Ph.D.
from a regionally accredited college or university and
postdoctoral experience preferred..
*SALARY RANGE* Salary competitive with those at
similarly situated institutions. Position is contingent
upon funding.
*PROFILE of the UNIVERSITY*
Founded in 1957 <https://www.unlv.edu/about/-
history >, UNLV is a doctoral-degree-granting institu-
tion of approximately 29,000 students and 3,000 faculty
and sta <https://www.unlv.edu/about/glance/facts
>that is classied by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching as a research university <
https://www.unlv.edu/research >with high research ac-
tivity. UNLV oers a broad range of respected academic
programs <https://www.unlv.edu/academics/degrees
>and is on a path to join the top tier of national public
research universities.The university is committed to enhancing eorts to at-
tract and retain top students and faculty, educating
the region's diversifying population and workforce <
https://www.unlv.edu/campuslife/las-vegas >, driving
economic activity through increased research <https:/-
/www.unlv.edu/research >and community partnerships
<https://www.unlv.edu/service/community-partners
>, and creating an academic health center for South-
ern Nevada that includes the launch of a new UNLV
School of Medicine <https://www.unlv.edu/medicine
>. UNLV is located on a 332-acre main campus and
two satellite campuses in Southern Nevada.
*COMMITMENT to DIVERSITY* The successful can-
didate will demonstrate support for diversity, equity
and inclusiveness as well as participate in maintaining
a respectful, positive work environment.
*APPLICATION DETAILS* Submit a letter of interest,
a detailed resume listing qualications and experience,
and the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of at
least three professional references who may be contacted.
Applicants should fully describe their qualications and
experience, with specic reference to each of the min-
imum and preferred qualications because this is the
information on which the initial review of materials will
be based.
Although this position will remain open until lled, re-
view of candidates' materials will begin January 15, 2018
and best consideration will be gained for materials sub-
mitted prior to that date. Materials should be addressed
to Frank van Breukelen Search Committee Chair, and
are to be submitted via on-line application at https://-
hrsearch.unlv.edu/. For assistance with UNLV's on-line
applicant portal, contact UNLV Employment Services
at (702) 895-3504 or applicant.inquiry@unlv.edu. *AP-
PLICATION INFORMATION*
*Contact:*
UNLV Human Resources University of Nevada Las Ve-
gas
*Phone:*
702-895-3504
*Online App. Form:*
*https://hrsearch.unlv.edu* Donald K. Price, Ph.D. Di-
rector and Professor School of Life Sciences University
of Nevada, Las Vegas donald.price@unlv.edu
Donald Price <donald.price@unlv.edu >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 107
UQAT Quebec
ForestPopulationGenetics
\Date : December 21st 2017 TENURE TRACK PRO-
FESSOR IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY OF SPECIES
ASSOCIATED WITH FOREST ECOSYSTEMS Com-
petition no 2017-63
The Universit e du Qu ebec en Abitibi-T emiscamingue
(UQAT) is a human sized institution that operates
primarily in Abitibi-T emiscamingue, in the Nord-du-
Qu ebec, in the Hautes-Laurentides and with aboriginal
communities. For more than a quarter of a century,
UQAT has distinguished itself on several levels: teach-
ing, research and creation, and service to the commu-
nity. Thanks to its recognized expertise, UQAT plays
an increasingly signicant role not only at the regional
scale, abut also at the provincial, national and inter-
national scales. The university's unique development
model builds on partnerships in all its territories and
thus ensures accessibility to university training. UQAT
has been able to develop in several elds of which it
is now renowned, creation and new media, human and
social development, education, forests, engineering, man-
agement, mining and the environment, health and abo-
riginal communities.
Since the creation of UQAT, forest research has always
been part of the institution's development plans. Strate-
gic developments, including a partnership with UQAM,
have enabled the establishment of a critical mass of
interdisciplinary experts in "ecology and sustainable for-
est management" and in "valorisation, characterisation
and transformation of wood". Consequently, UQAT has
a well-established reputation in training, research and
technology transfer in forest research, an expertise that
is now recognised across Quebec, Canada and the inter-
national community. With the creation of the Forest
Research Institute (IRF) in 2011, UQAT developed a
structure that increases its contribution to forest science
and technology. To date, the IRF relies on a team of
eleven researchers, an Industrial Chair, two Canada Re-
search Chairs, several specialised laboratories, and an
extensive network of partnerships locally and around the
world. The Institute attracts over $3 million annually
in research, publishes more than 50 articles per year in
recognised scientic journals, contributes to the training
of a large contingent of highly qualied personnel, and is
well known for a commitment to technology transfer asit organises a large number of dissemination activities.
Renewed in 2014, the NSERC-UQAT-UQAM Industrial
Chair in Sustainable Forest Management conrms the
importance of developing and implementing innovative
strategies and practices for ecosystem-based sustainable
forest management. The IRF is active in both Abitibi-
T emiscamingue and Nord-du-Qu ebec, with signicant
spin-os for Qu ebec and Canadian society as a whole.
Position to be lled by the Forest Research Institute :
TENURE TRACK PROFESSOR IN MOLECULAR BI-
OLOGY OF SPECIES ASSOCIATED WITH FOREST
ECOSYSTEMS
FUNCTION :
The candidate must be able to develop a research pro-
gram in molecular biology, more especially in relation to
species associated with forest ecosystems. The candidate
should be interested in the application of population ge-
netics, functional genomics or environmental genomics
to issues related to forest ecology and forestry. The can-
didate must demonstrate excellence in the proposed eld
of research in order to be eligible for the major granting
agencies, including the John R Evans Leaders Fund. It
should be noted that IRF has a state-of-the-art labo-
ratory in molecular biology that allows the candidate
to quickly start his research program. The candidate
should also have an interest in doing research in partner-
ship with companies and government agencies associated
with forestry, wildlife management, as well as ecological
restoration. The candidate must be able to work in a
small university in a region whose mission is, among
other things, to contribute to the socio-economic devel-
opment of the community. The professor will supervise
graduate students in the Master's Degree in Ecology
and the Doctoral Degree in Environmental Sciences, two
of the graduate programs oered at UQAT.
REQUIREMENTS :
. Ph. D. in Ecology, Environment, Genetics, Biology,
Forestry or a related discipline with expertise in molec-
ular biology; . Candidates who have submitted their
doctoral thesis could be considered. The candidate will
have to commit to all the steps leading to graduation; .
A research le demonstrating signicant scientic pro-
ductivity; . Excellent knowledge of written and spoken
French (language of teaching), or the intent to acquire
it.
OTHER CRITERIA CONSIDERED AS AN ASSET:
. A postdoctoral fellowship as well as experience in
industry or government
PRIMARY WORK LOCATION: Rouyn-Noranda
START DATE: June 1st, 2018108 EvolDir January 1, 2018
DURATION OF CONTRACT: 2 years (tenure-track
position)
SALARY: Salary is based on the qualications and ex-
perience of each
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTexas ElPaso CollectionManager
Natural History Collection Manager
Job ID: 3575 Location: El Paso, TX Full/Part Time:
Full-Time Regular/Temporary: Regular
FLSA Status
Exempt Posting End Date
Review of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until February 15, 2018. Monthly Salary
$3,106
$37,277/year + benets Hours per Week
40.00 Standard from 800AM to 500PM Hiring Depart-
ment
Biological Sciences Please Note
This position is grant funded continued employment
is contingent on the availability of funds. Required
Application Materials
A cover letter, academic curriculum vitae, collections
Experience Statement (1-2 pages), including any experi-
ence with Arctos and a list of 3 professional references
are required in order to apply.
Please upload all documents in one le. Purpose of
Position
The collection manager for the University of Texas at El
Paso Biodiversity Collections (UTEP-BC, natural his-
tory collections) will administer a world-class collection
of specimens. The collections consist of uid-preserved
specimens, study skins, herbarium specimens, inverte-
brate collections, Cenozoic fossils, frozen tissues, wet
and dry skeletons, acoustical recordings, digital and
lm-image archives, and extensive library holdings. The
collections have an historical strength in Chihuahuan
desert extant and extinct invertebrate and vertebratespecimens, and recent collections have focused on this
region, Central and South America, and Central Africa.
University curators and students, and national and in-
ternational scholars use the collections extensively for
research and education. The collections manager is re-
sponsible for day-to-day activities in the collection and
reports to the director. Essential Functions
Collections management and conservation: * Ensure
long-term integrity and preservation of collections and
collection-storage environment. * Maintain and improve
collection-care protocols. * Develop and maintain col-
lection database (Arctos database). * Maintain and
organize records of collection activity, use, and status
for annual reports, grant submittals, and other docu-
mentation.
Acquisition and collection development: * Oversee the
preparation and staging of newly acquired specimens for
their integration into the collection. * Organize and pre-
pare documentation necessary for specimen accession,
including national and international permits and associ-
ated documentation. * Electronically catalog specimens
and their associated information. * Participate in ac-
quisition of specimens for the UTEP-BC by facilitating
donations and by occasional eldwork and expeditions
at the direction of the curatorial sta.
Museum operational service: * Process all specimen
loans, exchanges, and gifts; incorporate received speci-
mens into the collection; maintain appropriate records
of such activities. * Collaborate with curators to plan
and implement divisional goals, priorities, and programs.
* Collaborate with other museum collections managers
to achieve high quality collections care and economy of
scale in all collections-related activities. * Work proac-
tively to place specimens from the UTEP-BC collection
into the hands of qualied researchers for study. * Assist
and supervise users of the collections. * Respond to
inquiries from scientists, governmental and consulting
agencies, the public, and other users. * Participate in
the museum's public programming by providing infor-
mation and specimens and assisting in exhibit design;
assist in museum public functions. * Conduct tours for
visiting scholars, students, and the public.
Supervision: * Hire, train, and supervise undergraduate
assistants. * Train and supervise volunteers working in
the collection.
Professional development: * Work closely with the cu-
rators to ensure consistency of practice. * Participate
in collection management training and development
through professional societies. * Undertake research
in area of expertise when not in conict with collec-
tion management duties. * Participate in professional
scientic societies.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 109
Knowledge of all Microsoft Oce software and able to
learn and use institutional software systems.
Complies with all State and University policies.
Other duties may be assigned.
Required Qualications
A Master's degree or Ph.D. from an accredited univer-
sity in museum studies, systematics, botany or inver-
tebrate/vertebrate zoology or bachelor's degree plus a
minimum of 2 years experience working with museum
collections in a position with similar responsibilities.
Familiarity with biodiversity informatics, including
the database Arctos, web-based applications, and dis-
tributed networks.
Demonstrable knowledge of care and management of
natural history collections, with a special emphasis on
preventative conservation,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UToronto BioinformaticsTech
The University of Toronto Centre for Analysis of
Genome Evolution & Function (CAGEF, http://-
www.cagef.utoronto.ca/) is searching for a Bioinformat-
ics Technician. This is a long-term sta position for
an individual interested in both data analysis as well
as bioinformatics training & education. The individual
will be responsible for analyzing client data, assisting
with client experimental design, and developing and
presenting bioinformatic training workshops, courses,
and online tutorials to enable bench scientists to take a
more engaged role in the analysis of their own data.
Candidates should have a bachelor degree in bioinfor-
matics, computational biology, biostatistics, or an equiv-
alent combination of education and experience, and at
least three years of recent and relevant post-graduate
experience in the eld. They should also have practical
experience with bioinformatics, biostatistics, genome
analysis, next-generation genome data management and
analysis, Unix, Python, R & Bioconductor.
Direct experience and interest in developing and present-
ing bioinformatics workshops, programs, and materialis strongly desired.
The individual will have the opportunity to actively en-
gage in major research projects, obtain co-authorship on
scientic publications, and have the potential to perform
independent research.
CAGEF is an independent unit within the University
of Toronto Faculty of Arts & Science that provides ge-
nomics, proteomics, and bioinformatics services. Our
mandates includes the promotion of interdisciplinary
research, education, and training.
More information can be found https:/-
/utoronto.taleo.net/careersection/10000/-
jobdetail.ftl?job=1702268&tz=GMT-05%3A00
Questions can be sent to david.guttman@utoronto.ca
David S. Guttman Director, Centre for the Analysis of
Genome Evolution & Function Professor & Associate
Chair for Research, Department of Cell & Systems Bi-
ology University of Toronto 25 Willcocks St. Toronto,
ON M5S 3B2 Canada
416-978-6865 oce david.guttman@utoronto.ca
guttman.csb.utoronto.ca www.cagef.utoronto.ca David
Guttman <david.guttman@utoronto.ca >
WhitmanC Washington LabTech
MolecularEvolution
*Seeking a full-time laboratory technician to carry out
research on the molecular basis of repeated evolution:*
Funding is available for a 20-month position. During
that time, the technician will work with me to design
and implement functional tests of candidate genes for
the regulation of oral pigmentation in the Chilean
monkeyower (Mimulus).
Requirements include: - a Bachelor's degree in Biol-
ogy or a related discipline - research experience in a
molecular lab - attention to detail and ability to work
independently - excellent organizational and communi-
cation skills
Understanding of or experience with transgenic tech-
niques is preferred; we use Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation.
I run an undergraduate research lab at Whitman College,
a selective liberal arts college located in the small but
vibrant community of Walla Walla, in eastern Washing-
ton. Walla Walla receives numerous awards for quality110 EvolDir January 1, 2018
of life thanks to its music, art, and wine scenes: http:/-
/www.wallawalla.org/ .This is a full-time position with
benets, starting at $25,000 annual salary. Starting
date is exible but should be summer or fall 2018.
To apply, please visit https://whitmanhr.simplehire.com
, click on \Sta Position" and then \Laboratory Tech-
nician", and upload: - a cover letter describing your
background and reason for being interested in the posi-
tion - your CV / r esum e, including names and contactinformation for three references
Questions may be directed to: Dr. Arielle Cooley coo-
leya@whitman.edu
{
Arielle Cooley, Assistant Professor Whitman College
Biology Department Walla Walla, WA 99362
Arielle Cooley <cooleya@whitman.edu >
Other
3Dprinting magneticStand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
AMNH NewYork HelenFellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Kluane RedSquirrelAssistants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
MountainLakeBiologicalStation GrantWriting Jul29-
Aug3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
OmmenPrize EvolutionMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Phyloseminar CecileAne Dec13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
SMBE CallForAwardsNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Software IQTree version 1 6 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113Software NeEstimator v2 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
SouthAfrica StripedMouse ResAssistResManager . 114
SouthAfrica VolResAssist PhysiologyBehaviour . . .115
StonyBrookU GraduateOpportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
UTexas ElPaso REU ChihuahuanDesertBiodiversity
116
WillametteU VolFieldPosition Coevolution . . . . . . . 117
3Dprinting magneticStand
Dear EvolDir community,
I would love to nd out if any of you use magnetic stands
for eppendorfs and pcr tubes? I know one needs to use
them for e.g. RNA library prep, but the stands are
ridiculously expensive . . . Did anyone try to print it
with a 3D printer? If so, details on price, any potential
3D models etc. would be much appreciated. Also, how
strong should the magnets be?
Looking forward to hearing from you all! All the bestin 2018! :) All answers will naturally be shown later on,
to help peer with similar issues.
Sincerely, Nik (lupsen@natur.cuni.cz)
{
\I don't care that they stole my idea . . I care that they
don't have any of their own"^ a eNikola Tesla
PhD Zoology candidate Room 225 Division of Animal
Evolutionary Biology Department of Zoology Faculty of
Science Charles University in Prague
ViniAn a 7, 128 44 Praha
Czech Republic
Nik Lupse <nik.lupse@yahoo.com >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 111
AMNH NewYork HelenFellowship
Dear Colleagues,
The BridgeUP: STEM program at the AMNH is ex-
cited to announce that the application for the Helen
Fellowship is now open. This fellowship is a one-year
residency for post-baccalaureate women to devote time
immersed in computational scientic research and ed-
ucational outreach at the AMNH. This fellowship is
an initiative at the AMNH dedicated to increasing the
diversity of the talent pipeline by providing underrepre-
sented students access to the skills and tools required
for the 21st Century.
Please share this great opportunity with any female
student or advisee who might be interested. To
learn more about the fellowship and the application
process, visit <http://www.amnh.org/bridgeup/helen
>https://www.amnh.org/learn-teach/adults/bridgeup-
stem/helen-fellowship .A colorful PDF yer can be down-
loaded at this website.
Who is eligible to apply? The fellowship is intended for
recent college graduates with a conferred bachelor's or
master's degree in computer science, natural sciences,
applied mathematics, computational science, or other
relevant majors prior to the fellowship start date in
September.
What are the benets? Fellows will receive an annual
salary of $70,000 plus generous benets. Funding is also
available for research, travel and equipment expenses.
How do I apply? The online application is now open and
is due by January 21, 2018. To learn more about appli-
cation requirements, visit https://www.amnh.org/learn-
teach/adults/bridgeup-stem/helen-fellowship . With
Regards,
The BridgeUP: STEM Team
Email: bridgeupstem@amnh.org
bridgeupstem@amnh.orgKluane RedSquirrelAssistants
Field Assistants Required 2018 Kluane Red Squirrel
Project, Yukon, Canada
We are looking for eld technicians to assist with eld-
work for three dierent time periods: (a) 1 March-15-
May (b) 1 May-15 August, and (c) 1 September - 15
October.
The positions are part of a long-term study of red squir-
rel ecology, evolutionary biology and physiology. As
a member of the study, technicians will be involved
with monitoring the reproduction and survival of indi-
vidual squirrels. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping
and handling of squirrels, radio-telemetry, behavioural
observation, and locating young in their nests. Some
positions will also require additional handling for physio-
logical assays (e.g., blood sampling). This is an excellent
opportunity to gain experience working with a collab-
orative research team on a long-term study of a wild
mammal.
All eldwork is carried against the beautiful backdrop
of southwestern Yukon, Canada. We will be staying at
a rustic eld station two hours from Whitehorse, and
~30 min to the nearest town (Haines Junction). All
food and accommodation are provided and technicians
are provided with transportation (within reason) to and
from the eld site either through airfare or vehicles.
Training will be provided and no experience is necessary.
Candidates should have an interest in a number of the
following (the more the better!): ecology, evolutionary
biology, wildlife, eld biology, and animal behaviour.
The eld camp is remote and low tech (no showers, cell
phone service, or internet), so successful applicants must
enjoy the outdoors and be able to remain a positive and
responsible team member under relatively isolated and
demanding conditions. Candidates must be in good
physical condition and have an enthusiasm for learning.
We work on 'squirrel time', which often involves long
work days; as such, applicants must have a strong work
ethic. The atmosphere at squirrel camp is friendly and
inclusive and all nationalities are welcome.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email klu-
aneredsquirrels@gmail.com by January 5 2018. Please
also indicate the time period(s) you are interested in.112 EvolDir January 1, 2018
\jerey.lane@usask.ca" <jerey.lane@usask.ca >
MountainLakeBiologicalStation
GrantWriting Jul29-Aug3
Six-day hands-on grant writing workshop at Mountain
Lake Biological Station
Grant Writing Workshop July 29 - August 3, 2018 Reg-
istration Deadline: July 13, 2018
Location: Mountain Lake Biological Station 240 Salt
Pond Cir., Pembroke, VA 24136.
Join NSF program director Dr. Leslie Rissler for a six-
day hands-on grant writing workshop for junior scientists
who want to learn strategies, styles, and structures to
improve their grant proposals. The experience is geared
toward early career proposal writers including early
stage faculty, postdocs, and senior graduate students
and will include direct discussions and writing sessions
based on participants' own proposal ideas. Limited
enrollment (12) will enable close interaction.
Cost: $250 registration, plus room and board ( $262.50
double occupancy or $285.25 private accommodation if
available).
For More information: About workshop struc-
ture and content: Contact Leslie Rissler,
Leslie.Rissler@gmail.com
About registration, travel logistics, and the eld station:
Contact MLBS, mlbs@virginia.edu, (540) 626-7196, or
visit mlbs.org
esn8n@virginia.edu
OmmenPrize EvolutionMedicine
\Now open for nominations! Omenn Prize ( $5000) for
best scientic paper published in 2017 on a topic related
to evolution in the context of medicine and public health
- nominate at https://evolutionarymedicine.org/funding-
and-awards/gil-omenn-prize/" Cheers, Sean
Sean Byars <seangbyars@gmail.com >Phyloseminar CecileAne Dec13
Next on http://phyloseminar.org: >From reconstruct-
ing to using phylogenetic networks C ecile An e University
of Wisconsin-Madison Wednesday, December 13, 2017,
9:00 AM PST
I will rst highlight why network reconstruction is worth
the eort, and then explain some of the challenges of net-
work reconstruction and network intepretation. These
challenges include identiability issues, diculties to
summarize network uncertainty, and interpretation is-
sues related to network-thinking. Finally, I will describe
new phylogenetic comparative methods that can be ap-
plied to phylogenetic networks, and are implemented in
the PhyloNetworks Julia package.
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Mem-
ber Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick Matsen
<ematsen@gmail.com >
SMBE CallForAwardsNominations
Nominations Due for Prestigious SMBE Awards
Dear SMBE Members: In 2015, SMBE instituted four
new awards for: Early-Career, Mid-Career, and Life-
time Research Achievements, and Service to the SMBE
Community. We are now calling for nominations for
these awards and ask you to consider nominating your
colleagues.
*The nominations will be due on January 19, 2018.*
Briey, the Junior Award for Independent Research is
intended for nominees in tenure-track positions at the
Assistant Professor level or equivalent; the Mid-Career
Award is for the research contributions of faculty near-
ing promotion to Full Professor or in the early stages
as a Full Professor; the Lifetime Contribution Award is
for exceptional contributions to the published literature
in the eld of molecular biology and evolution; and the
Community Service Award recognizes outstanding ef-
forts on behalf of the Society and the broader scientic
community. Awardees will receive a cash prize and a tripJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 113
to the upcoming SMBE Annual Meeting in Yokohama,
Japan (July 8-12, 2018).
Here are links to the pages describing these awards:
*Allan Wilson Junior Award for Independent Re-
search * http://www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
FacultyAwards/AllanWilsonJuniorAwardforIndep
endentResearch.aspx <https://t.e2ma.net/click/-
l8jxm/duvmg1/diehze >
*Margaret Dayho Mid-Career Award* http://-
www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/FacultyAwards/-
MargaretDayhoMidCareerAward .aspx <https://-
t.e2ma.net/click/l8jxm/duvmg1/tafhze >
*Community Service Award* http://-
www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/FacultyAwards/-
CommunityServiceAward.aspx <https://t.e2ma.net/-
click/l8jxm/duvmg1/92fhze >
*Motoo Kimura Lifetime Contribution Award* http:/-
/www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/FacultyAwards/-
MotooKimuraLifetimeContributio nAward.aspx <
https://t.e2ma.net/click/l8jxm/duvmg1/pvghze >
Nominations require a nomination letter, which should
clearly indicate the award under consideration and also
serve as a recommendation letter; a separate one-page
summary of the nominee's qualications for the award;
a CV of the nominee; and an additional letter of recom-
mendation.
Self-nomination is not allowed. The nominator need
not be an SMBE member, but the nominee must be a
member of SMBE to be considered for the award. The
materials should be compiled into a single PDF le, and
should be emailed to tleatherman@allenpress.com.
Best Regards, George Zhang SMBE Awards Commit-
tee Chair Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
smbe@allenpress.com
\Lulu Stader (SMBE admin)"
<smbe.contact@gmail.com >
Software IQTree version 1 6 0
Dear Community,
We are pleased to announce the major release 1.6.0 of
the IQ-TREE software for phylogenomic reconstruction
(http://www.iqtree.org). Among others, notable new
features include:
- Many new realistic models of sequence evolution: Het-erotachy, Lie Markov and Polymorphism-aware Models.
- Three new empirical protein models mtMet, mtVer,
mtInv for mitochondrial evolution. - Improved Mod-
elFinder allowing to test all above models. For parti-
tioned analysis ModelFinder now supports edge-linked
partition model selection and fast relaxed clustering
algorithm (-rclusterf option) like PartitionFinder2. - A
fast tree search option to match the speed of FastTree
while still obtaining better trees (-fast option). - Ances-
tral sequence reconstruction (-asr option). - An option
to reduce the impact of model violation for the ultrafast
bootstrap (-bnni option). - Xeon Phi Knights Landing
(AVX-512 instruction set) support.
Kind regards,
IQ-TREE development team
Bui Quang Minh Center for Integrative Bioinformatics
Vienna (CIBIV) Campus Vienna Biocenter 5, VBC5,
Ebene 1 A-1030 Vienna, Austria
minh.bui@univie.ac.at
Software NeEstimator v2 1
Hi Folks
We are pleased to announce a major upgrade to the
NeEstimator software.
The new version (2.1) implements some major improve-
ments particularly for the linkage disequilibrium (LD)
method of estimating genetic eective population size
(Ne) from diploid genotypes. These improvements facil-
itate the use of SNP data for LD estimates of Ne.
The changes include
1. Faster capacity to estimate Burrows r, 2. An option
to estimate r between loci on separate chromosomes
or linkage groups (with user-supplied linkage data), 3.
An improved method of estimating jacknifed condence
intervals, and 4. Improvement to the handling of low
frequency alleles.
The new software can be downloaded here <
http://www.molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/-
neestimator-software/ >.
(http://www.molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/-
neestimator-software/)
Best wishes,
NeEstimator development team (Chi Do, Robin Waples,
David Peel and Jenny Ovenden)114 EvolDir January 1, 2018
\j.ovenden@uq.edu.au" <j.ovenden@uq.edu.au >
SouthAfrica StripedMouse
ResAssistResManager
First call :
Position as research assistant (March - October 2018)
and as research manager (November 2018-November
2019
at the striped mouse project in South Africa,
We are looking for an extremely motivated and inde-
pendent biology student with a master's degree to join
the striped mouse project at least until November 2019
and for a maximum of 3 years, rst as research assis-
tant (March-October 2018) and afterwards as research
manager. This position is suitable for somebody who
would like to gain experience in eld work and scientic
management. Assistants / managers get free accom-
modation at the station and a compensation to cover
their daily costs. Travel costs can be refunded by up
to an additional R 12 000 / year. As such, the position
compensates for all arising costs but does not represent
a real employment.
As research assistant, you will help the postdoc Pauline
Vuarin during her studies on the extinction risk of dif-
ferent sub-populations in Goegap.
As research manager you will work closely together with
the station manager and both managers will share re-
sponsibilities. However, each will have specic main
duties, but should also be able to deal with all other
duties (for example when the other manager is on leave,
or when a new manager has to be trained). Our current
research manager will leave the project in October 2018.
The new research manager will be instructed by the
present research manager.
Skills needed: Good experience in eld work and must
good knowledge of behavioural ecology or a similar eld
of research. Experiences in working with small mam-
mals, radio-tracking, blood sampling, living at a remote
location are of advantage.
Great opportunity: This is a great opportunity to spend
1.5-3 years in Africa, acquiring important skills in eld
biology and project management, while improving your
CV. These skills will become valuable whether you later
continue with a PhD or other jobs. It will be very hard
and demanding, but also a once in a life time experience!You must be hard-working, highly motivated, able to
work independently, good in communicating with peo-
ple, able to supervise others, and not afraid of snakes.
You should love to live at a remote place in nature,
without regular internet and cell-phone reception. Most
importantly, you are fascinated by nature and science!
Job description: Five working days a week (Mo, Tue,
Thu, Fr, Sat), with Wednesday being used for a shop-
ping trip to town (not counted as working day) and
Sundays being free. Included are four weeks of holiday
for 12 months, which has to be taken outside the main
breeding season (August to November) during periods
when other students are present at the research station.
Primary duties research manager / secondary duties
station manager
. Data:
o Weekly data entry
o Weekly data check
o Monthly data backup
o Monthly data report
o Training and supervision of eld assistants
o Training of students and postdocs
o Support for students and postdocs
o Management of transmitters
o Management of eld and laboratory supplies
Primary duties station manager / secondary duties re-
search manager
. Technical support research station:
o Water system incl. sewage system
o Solar system
o Gas bottles replacement
o House and furniture
o Running of the respirometry laboratory
o Management of the captive colony
o Management of the research station car
o Management of bank account and cash box
o Management of research station supplies
Compensation:
. Free accommodation.
* A monthly compensation of R 3 500, which is sucient
to pay all costs of living. This compensation will rise to
R4 700 per month in November 2018, when the research
assistant takes over the research manager position. *January 1, 2018 EvolDir 115
For travel costs, R12 000 per year can be refunded,
but proof (receipts) must be presented for this. This
refund is only payable after October 2019 and will not
be paid if the person leaves earlier than agreed. * You
will become an honorary researcher at the University of
the Witwatersrand in the group of Prof. N. Pillay. *
Scientic co-authorship will be possible if the manager
contributes to the success of projects by not only col-
lecting the majority of data, but also by data analysis
and writing of the manuscript.
Responsibilities:
. The manager has to cover the costs to get to the
station, including travel costs and visa fees. For this, a
refund can be paid (see above).
* The manager needs to arrange for a health insurance
covering him / her during the stay. A copy must be sent
to C. Schradin before travelling to the stations.
Place and project: Succulent Karoo Research Station
(SKRS) in the Goegap Nature Reserve near Springbok
in the Northern Cape of South Africa. The research
projects are on the socio-ecology of small mammals,
studying ecological and physiological reasons of social
behaviour, behavioural
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SouthAfrica VolResAssist
PhysiologyBehaviour
Volunteer Research Assistant Position We are looking
for 3 volunteer research assistants to carry out excit-
ing experiments with captive Damaraland mole-rats,
Fukomys damarensis at the Kuruman River Reserve, in
the South African Kalahari Desert.
Broadly, our research investigates the inuence of genes,
hormones and social factors on individual developmental,
growth and behaviours.
Currently, we are particularly interested in characteriz-
ing the phenotypical dierences between breeding and
non-breeding individuals and to develop an integrated
understanding of the causes and consequences of such
dierences.Applicants should be available for a period of 6 to 12
months starting as soon as possible. They should be
hardworking, enthusiastic, physically t, and prepared
for long hours in the laboratory. Successful applicants
will be responsible to run experiments and will be in-
volved in data collection and management (behavioural
observations, collection of blood and urine samples).
Other general tasks related to animal handling (hor-
mone injections and implants) and husbandry and data
handling will also be expected. Some applicants should
feel comfortable with being involved in experiments re-
quiring the sacrice of experimental subjects. Working
weeks will not exceed 45 hours.
This position is particularly suited, but not exclusively,
for people aiming to carry on their academic education
or a management position in a research project. Success-
ful applicants can expect to gain invaluable experience
in animal handling procedures and in conducting and
managing experiments. They will also gain database
skills (MySQL) and will be provided with the oppor-
tunity to work on a personal project using the data
available in our existing database.
Costs of food and accommodation while at the project
will be covered.
If you are interested in this position send your CV and
cover letter stating your availability to Philippe Vullioud
(philippe.vullioud@gmail.com).
Shortlisted applicants will be invited for a Skype inter-
view.
Deadline: 31st December 2017 (the position will remain
open until lled)
philippe.vullioud@gmail.com
StonyBrookU
GraduateOpportunities
DEADLINE EXTENSION: Due to uncertainties regard-
ing the tax legislation currently before congress, the
program in Ecology and Evolution at Stony Brook Uni-
versity has decided to consider applications for the PhD
program submitted before Jan 15. Review of applica-
tions has already begun and there are limited spots
available, so it is advisable to submit as soon as possible.
Please see additional program information below.
*****
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES IN ECOLOGY AND116 EvolDir January 1, 2018
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
The Graduate Program in Ecology and Evolution in the
Department of Ecology and Evolution at Stony Brook
University is recruiting doctoral and master's level grad-
uate students for Fall 2018. The program trains students
in Ecology, Evolution and Biometry. The deadlines for
applications are Dec. 1, 2017 for the PhD program and
April 15, 2018 for the MA program (see below).
The following faculty are considering graduate students.
It is highly recommended that you contact possible
advisors before submitting your application.
DEPARTMENTAL FACULTY
Resit Akcakaya - Population and Conservation Ecology
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/akcakayalab/ Stephen
B. Baines - Ecosystem Ecology and Biogeochem-
istry http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/baineslab/ Liliana
M. D avalos - Vertebrate, Phylogenetics, Biogeog-
raphy and Conservation http://lmdavalos.net/lab/-
The Lab.html Jessica Gurevitch - Plant Population
and Invasion Ecology http://gurevitchlab.weebly.com/
Brenna Henn - Human Evolutionary Genomics https:/-
/ecoevo.stonybrook.edu/hennlab/ Jesse D. Hollis-
ter - Plant Evolutionary Genomics and Epigenet-
ics https://genomeevolution.wordpress.com/ Heather
Lynch - Quantitative Ecology and Conservation Biol-
ogy https://lynchlab.com/ Dianna K. Padilla - In-
vertebrate Aquatic Ecology and Conservation Biology
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/padillalab/ Joshua Rest -
Evolutionary Genomics http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/-
restlab/Home.html Robert Thacker- Systematics, Phy-
logenetics, and Ecology http://www.stonybrook.edu/-
commcms/ecoevo/people/faculty pages/thacker.html
John True - Evolutionary Developmental Biology http:/-
/life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/truelab/True Lab.html Kishna
M. Veeramah - Primate Comparative Genomics http://-
life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/veeramahlab/ PROGRAM FAC-
ULTY IN OTHER DEPARTMENTS
Nolwenn Dheilly - Evolution of Host-Parasite Inter-
actions http://you.stonybrook.edu/dheilly/ Andreas
Koenig http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/-
anthropology/faculty/akoenig.html David Matus -
Evolution of Cell Invasion http://www.stonybrook.edu/-
commcms/biochem/research/faculty/matus.html#
Janet Nye - Quantitative Fisheries Ecology https:/-
/you.stonybrook.edu/jnye/ Alistair Rogers - Plant
Physiology and Climate Change www.bnl.gov/-
TEST Shawn Serbin - Plant Physiology and
Remote Sensing www.bnl.gov/TEST Jeroen B.
Smaers - Brain Evolution, Phylogenetic Compara-
tive Methodology, Macroevolutionary Morphology
https://smaerslab.com/ Leslie Thorne - Ecology
and Behavior of Marine Birds and Mammals http:/-/you.stonybrook.edu/thornelab/ Nils Volkenborn
- Benthic Ecology and Sediment Biogeochemistry
https://you.stonybrook.edu/voll/ Patricia Wright
- Tropical Conservation and Primatology http:/-
/www.patwrightlab.net/pat-wright.html For more
information regarding the Graduate Program in Ecology
and Evolution, please see http://www.stonybrook.edu/-
ecoevo/index.html for general information. For specic
information on the PhD and MA programs, please
see http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/ecoevo/-
program/index.html and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTexas ElPaso REU
ChihuahuanDesertBiodiversity
REU Opportunity Summer 2018: \Research Experience
for Undergraduates in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity"
The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences invites applicants for the
NSF sponsored Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU) in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity. This
is a 10 week summer program. The goal of this pro-
gram is to provide undergraduate students with experi-
ence in hypothesis-driven collaborative research utilizing
eld based and/or laboratory methods and fully engage
students in projects associated with the ecology and
evolution inuencing Chihuahuan Desert biodiversity.
The program provides:
* High quality research experience in ecology and evo-
lutionary biology in the eld and/or lab * Research
opportunities at the Indio Mountains Research Station
(IMRS), a 40,000 acre facility controlled by UTEP *
One-on-one and group mentoring from active research
faculty in multidisciplinary elds * Training in bioethics
and other relevant professional skills
The program includes:
* $5500 stipend for 10 weeks
* Housing in shared apartments and eld station
* Travel reimbursement of up to $600
For more information on the program, research projectsJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 117
or to apply please visit: http://science.utep.edu/cdb-
reu/ Enquiries: CDB-REU@utep.edu
\Moody, Michael L" <mlmoody@utep.edu >
WillametteU VolFieldPosition
Coevolution
The Smith lab at Willamette University is soliciting
applications for volunteers to participate in eld re-
search studying the pollination biology and coevolution
of Joshua trees (*Yucca brevifolia*) and yucca moths
(genus *Tegeticula*) from mid March to mid April of
2018. Volunteers will assist in the completion of polli-
nation experiments in a plant hybrid zone located in
central Nevada, which will involve collecting ower and
leaf tissue samples, installing pollinator exclusion cages
over Joshua tree owers, collecting moths, and sorting
insects to species.
All food and accommodation costs will be covered by the
project. Travel within the United States will be paid by
the project. International travel costs may potentially
be covered, and will be considered on a case-by-case ba-
sis. However, participants traveling from outside the US
must arrange travel documents and secure appropriate
visas themselves.
Participation will require living at a remote eld camp
continuously for approximately ve weeks. Meals are
communal, prepared in a small RV kitchen, and evenings
are typically spent around the camp re. Many past
participants have returned for additional years, and
many have used the experience gained on this projectto secure other positions in agency, private conserva-
tion organizations, and graduate programs in ecology,
evolution, and entomology.
However, prospective participants should be aware that
conditions in the eld are challenging. The eld site has
no running water. Apart from personal tents and walks
in the desert there is little opportunity for personal space
and time, and there are no cell phone/internet services
at the eld site. (Wi and cell service are available in
the nearest town, a 30-minute drive away). Daily tem-
peratures may drop below freezing or exceed 90 F, and
windstorms are very common. So, it is important that
prospective volunteers be enthusiastic about living and
working closely with others in challenging conditions.
Volunteers should also be capable of hiking up to 6 miles
per day while carrying heavy and awkward loads, and
able to climb a 6' ladder.
Prospective volunteers should submit a CV or resume,
the name and contact information for one or more profes-
sional references, and a letter describing their interest in
the project by email to csmith@willamette.edu . There
is no degree requirement, but a familiarity with and an
interest in ecology and natural history are necessary.
Please include the words 'Volunteer Field Assistant' in
the subject line of your message.
Screening of applicants will begin on January 15th, 2018,
and continue until all positions are lled.
More information about our research can be found here:
http://www.nsf.gov/discoveries/-
discsumm.jsp?cntn id=115956&org=NSF http:/-
/www.reviewjournal.com/news/water-environment/-
joshua-tree-yucca-moth-co-evolution-fascinates-
researchers https://knpr.org/knpr/2013-01/joshua-
tree-researcher-searching-citizen-scientists Christopher
Smith <csmith@willamette.edu >
PostDocs118 EvolDir January 1, 2018
AmherstC MA EvolutionSexMatingChrs . . . . . . . . . 118
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . .120
BielefeldU PinnipedEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 121
BielefeldU ScienticCoordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
BielefeldU TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . 123
BrownU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
CBGP Madrid PlantVirusCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . .124
CharlesU CzechRep PollinationEcology . . . . . . . . . . .125
CIHMID Cornell DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
ColoradoStateU GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 127
Columbia NYC Computational Phylogenomics . . . 128
CSIC Madrid RodentEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128
DalhousieU MarineGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
DukeU SocialMammalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
Harvard MalariaParasiteFunctionalGenomics . . . . . 130
Ifremer France MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
ImperialC London ProteinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .131
IowaStateU SnakeEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 132
JacksonLaboratory Maine EvolutionaryGenomics .133
KansasStateU FishMicrobiomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . 134
Lausanne Switzerland ExperimentalEvolution-
Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
LosAlamosNatlLab ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 135
McGillU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
NorthDakotaStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 136
NYU AbuDhabi MangrovePopulationGenomics . . .137
Omaha NGS Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Paris TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
SanFranciscoStateU HIVEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
StockholmU MarineMetabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
TelAvivU BacterialSocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141Tel-AvivU BatBehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
TempleU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
TempleU TumorEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .142
Toulouse EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
UBielfeld BehaviouralGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
UCaliforniaIrvine EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 144
UCalifornia Riverside DataVizPhylogenomics . . . . .144
UCambridge ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
UChicago ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .146
UCologne EvolutionAntibioticResistance . . . . . . . . . 147
UCopenhagen AntEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .147
UCopenhagen IndoPacicBirdPopGenomics . . . . . . 148
UEastAnglia 2 AgeingLifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . .149
UHalle BeeViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150
UHelsinki Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .150
UMaryland SOM GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . .151
UMinnesota SoybeanPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151
UNewHampshire BeeEcolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .152
UNorthCarolina PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 153
UOstrava ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .153
UPennsylvania HumanGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
UPittsburgh MicrobiomeOrganization . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
USheeld Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .155
UTexasAustin EvolutionaryComputationalGenomics
155
UUppsala WolfGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
UWMilwaukee PopulationGeneticsPedigrees . . . . . .157
UZurich Bioinformatician EvolutionaryGenomics . 157
Wageningen AntibioticEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158
Wissenschaftskolleg Berlin Fellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . 159
AmherstC MA
EvolutionSexMatingChrs
AmherstCollege.EvolutionSexMatingChrs
2-YEAR POSTDOC IN EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NOMICS SEX AND MATING-TYPE CHROMO-
SOMES
The Hood Lab (https://www.amherst.edu/people/-
facsta/mhood) in the Biology Department at Amherst
College is seeking to ll a 2-year Postdoctoral Research
Associate position. The research addresses the evolu-
tionary genomics of chromosomes determining repro-
ductive compatibility and the consequences of recom-
bination suppression. This project will involve collab-
orative work with participating laboratories, includ-ing with the Giraud Lab (http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/-
article211.html?lang=en), and a mixtures of molecular
and bioinformatics approaches. Start date will be as
early as spring, 2018.
Qualications: A Ph.D. is required in evolutionary biol-
ogy, genetics or related eld and have research interests
in the evolution of reproductive systems (particularly in-
volving self-incompatibility systems), genome sequence
analysis, chromosome dynamics and structural evolution
and evolutionary genetics.
To apply online and for more information, please visit
our web site at https://apply.interfolio.com/48016 or
https://jobs.amherst.edu
About Amherst College: Amherst College, one of the
premier liberal arts colleges in the nation, is located
in Amherst, Massachusetts, a town of approximately
35,000 residents in the western part of the state that
is also home of UMass-Amherst. The college's com-
munity is composed of about 1,800 students from 49January 1, 2018 EvolDir 119
states, plus D.C., Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands,
and 54 countries around the world, and about 1,000
sta and faculty. The college's scenic 1,000-acre campus
includes a 500-acre wildlife sanctuary and the Book &
Plow Farm; three museums: Emily Dickinson Museum,
Beneski Museum of Natural History and Mead Art Mu-
seum; and multiple educational and cultural venues and
resources through the Five College Consortium. The
town of Amherst oers an amazing variety of coee
shops, restaurants and entertainment, and a very active
outdoor life. Our vibrant campus, diverse community
and beautiful surrounding, makes Amherst College and
the Town of Amherst a great place to work, learn and
live!
Statement of Non-discrimination: Amherst College does
not discriminate in admission, employment, or admin-
istration of its programs and activities on the basis of
race, national or ethnic origin, color, religion, sex or
gender (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender
expression, and gender identity), age, disability, genetic
information, military service, or any other characteristic
or class protected under applicable federal, state, or
local law. Amherst College complies with all state and
federal laws that prohibit discrimination, including Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act, Title IX, Section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities
Act, the Equal Pay Act and the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act. Inquiries should be addressed to the
Chief Diversity and Inclusion Ocer, Amherst College,
P.O. Box 5000, Amherst, MA 01002-5000.
Michael E. Hood Professor of Biology Amherst
College Amherst, MA USA 01002-5000 ph (413)
542-8538 email: MHood@amherst.edu https://-
www.amherst.edu/people/facsta/mhood Michael
Hood <mhood@amherst.edu >
ArizonaStateU
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral positions are available in Susanne Pfeifer's
group at Arizona State University, Tempe (US). Re-
search in the Pfeifer Lab is focused on analysing high-
throughput sequencing data to learn about genetic and
evolutionary|processes, with a particular interest in:
(i) Mutation rate variation in primates A better un-
derstanding of the basis of evolutionary variation as
generated by mutation will improve both insights into
the genetic basis of disease as well as our understandingof the chronology of human evolution. Germ line mu-
tations depend on several biological processes that are
well known to vary between dierent primate species,
yet only a limited number of studies has focused on di-
rectly estimating mutation rates in non-human primates.
Projects will involve computational method development
as well as the analysis of large-scale genomic pedigree
data to characterize variation in mutation rates|across
the primate clade.
(ii) Genomic mechanisms underlying links between evolu-
tionary shifts In many species, coloration is an important
phenotypic trait, involved in a range of dierent biologi-
cal processes ranging from sexual signalling to crypsis to
mimicry to thermoregulation. Building upon our results
in recently evolved cryptically colored populations, we
are extending this work to consider the co-evolution of
coloration phenotypes with other evolutionary signals.
Successful candidates are expected to have a strong com-
putational and statistical background (programming
prociency in R, Perl, or Python, and shell scripting
is essential; experience with analysing high throughput
sequencing data is highly desired) along with a genuine
interest in genetics and evolution. Preference will be
given to candidates with a strong publication record,
evidence of research productivity, and an ability to suc-
cessfully communicate scientic information. Funding is
available for three years, contingent on annual renewal
based on progress. The start date is exible.
The Pfeifer Lab oers a vibrant work environment
with excellent opportunities for collaborative eorts
as well as independent accomplishments. The Lab is
integrated within a diverse bioinformatics, evolution,
and population genetics research community at ASU
(ASUpopgen.org), as well as the Center for Evolution
and Medicine (evmed.asu.edu) and the Center for Mech-
anisms of Evolution (biodesign.asu.edu/mechanisms-
evolution). Additional information about the Lab and
research can be found at: http://spfeiferlab.org . In-
terested applicants should send a short summary of
research interests, CV, and contact information for two
references to susanne.pfeifer@asu.edu. The evaluation
of applications will begin on January 15th, 2018, and
will continue until one or more suitable candidates has
been found. Informal inquiries are welcome.
spfeife1@asu.edu120 EvolDir January 1, 2018
ArizonaStateU
EvolutionaryMedicine
Evolution & Medicine Postdoctoral Research Fellowship
Salary:
$60,000
Job #12228
Full-time
The Center for Evolution & Medicine (CEM) at Arizona
State University (ASU) invites applications for the Evo-
lution & Medicine Research Fellowship. The Fellowship
brings talented researchers with a recently awarded M.D.
or Ph.D. to the ASU campus to develop and extend their
own independent research agendas with opportunities
to collaborate with CEM faculty and other members of
their laboratories. Additionally, fellows will spend time
working with their mentor to develop skills in the areas
of outreach, education and grant writing. Possible re-
search areas include, but are not limited to, co-evolution
and infectious diseases, regulation of inammation and
other defenses, autoimmune disorders, cancer, genomics,
reproductive health, lactation, and factors that inuence
disease susceptibility. The proposed research project
must advance evidence based science for evolution and
medicine.
The successful fellow(s) will be an outstanding scientist
with a specic independent research plan, wide-ranging
interests in evolutionary biology related to disease and
health, and an appreciation for interdisciplinary research.
Selections are based on academic achievement, creativ-
ity, overlap of interests with multiple CEM faculty, and
the likely success and impact of the research project.
Fellows cannot have had more than ve years of previ-
ous postdoctoral experience, nor have been employed
previously as an assistant professor, associate professor
or professor on the tenure track. Nominees who are non-
US citizens are encouraged to apply, and will need to be
eligible for a J-1 Scholar visa status for the duration of
the Fellowship. CEM does not support H1B visa status.
A background check is required for employment.
Fellows will receive a salary of $60,000 and will have
access to funding of up to $10,000 per annum to sup-
port their research, of which $1500 may be allocated for
moving expenses. The initial closing date for receipt of
complete applications is February 1, 2018; applicationswill be reviewed weekly thereafter until the search is
closed. The earliest anticipated start date is July 2018,
the latest is January 2019. This is a full-time (1.0 FTE)
benets-eligible, scal year (July 1 - June 30) appoint-
ment. The fellowship is granted for a period of two years,
with a possible third year. Renewal for the second and
possible third year is contingent on performance and the
availability of resources. For additional information and
policies regarding postdoctoral scholars at ASU, please
see http:// provost.asu.edu/postdoc .
By the start date, candidates must have completed a
Ph.D. in anthropology, biology, psychology or another
natural science eld that provides an extensive back-
ground in evolutionary biology, or an MD, DVM, DrPH
or equivalent level health professional degree. Minimum
qualications include demonstrated proof of advanced
degree listed above and research experience in the eld
of evolutionary medicine by the time of the appoint-
ment. Preference will be given to applicants interested
in furthering their own research agenda in a multidis-
ciplinary environment and prior research experience in
co-evolution and infectious diseases, regulation of in-
ammation and other defenses, autoimmune disorders,
cancer, genomics, reproductive health, lactation and
factors that inuence disease susceptibility.
To apply, please email a single pdf document to evmed-
search@asu.edu that contains:
- a one-page statement explaining your interest in this
position, which faculty members you would like to
work with (and to have act as your postdoctoral spon-
sor/advisor(s)), and how it could advance your career
plans,
- a one or two-page statement that describes the research
you will pursue at CEM if awarded a fellowship. The
ability to clearly articulate a research plan that can
be understood by faculty from other disciplines is an
important selection criterion, so please minimize jargon
and technical language.
- the names and contact information for three references
- a curriculum vitae
Please use 11 point Times font with 1 inch margins and
1.5 line spacing for all items except the CV.
The Center for Evolution & Medicine is a university-
wide Presidential Initiative directed by Randolph Nesse.
Its mission is to improve human health by establishing
evolutionary biology as an essential basic science for
medicine, worldwide. It supports research that demon-
strates the power of evolutionary biology to advance the
understanding, prevention, and treatment of disease, as
well as teaching and outreach initiatives. See http:/-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 121
/evmed.asu.edu for details and information on Core
Faculty. As an interdisciplinary unit, the CEM provides
postdoctoral fellows with opportunities collaborate with
faculty from a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU
PinnipedEvolutionaryGenomics
Post-doctoral position: Pinniped ecological and evo-
lutionary genomics With Dr Joe Homan (Bielefeld
University, Germany), Prof Oliver Kruger (Bielefeld
University, Germany) and Dr Jaume Forcada (British
Antarctic Survey, UK)
An outstanding opportunity is available for a postdoc-
toral researcher to work on the ecological and evolution-
ary genomics of fur seals. The position is available in
Joe Homan's research group (www.thehomanlab.com)
in the Department of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld Uni-
versity. It runs from early 2018 to the end of 2021 and
is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG)
within the recently approved collaborative research cen-
tre (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC3).
The project: The postdoc will exploit and continue to
build upon an exceptionally detailed long-term study
of Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella) at Bird
Island, South Georgia. High quality genome and tran-
scriptome assemblies have already been generated and
microsatellite and high density SNP data will be avail-
able for ' ~A7000 marked individuals spanning a time
series from the mid 1980's to the current day. The aim
of this project (sub-project A01 of the collaborative
research centre) is to determine how tness variation
is shaped by interactions between individual genetic
quality (inbreeding) and the social environment within
breeding colonies. Highly detailed observational and
biometric time-series data will be collected from mother-
ospring pairs in two neighbouring colonies of high and
low social density. The mechanistic underpinnings of t-
ness variation will then be dissected apart using a novelcombination of endocrinological and immunological pro-
ling, high-density SNP genotyping, transcriptomics and
genome-wide methylation proling. This will generate
unprecedentedly detailed insights into tness variation
in a wild vertebrate, with major implications for under-
standing ecological and evolutionary dynamics as well
as adaptation to climate change.
The applicant: We seek a bright and highly motivated
postdoc with a strong PhD in a relevant topic (e.g.
population genetics, behavioural, evolutionary or con-
servation genomics, bioinformatics, animal behaviour,
behavioural ecology). A deep understanding as well
as extensive practical experience of working with high-
throughput sequencing data (including RADseq, tran-
scriptomic and whole-genome resequencing data) is
highly desirable, as is prociency in writing custom
scripts and working in Unix and R. Experience of work-
ing with large-scale, long-term datasets from wild animal
populations would also be a bonus. As the postdoc in-
volves two eld seasons at South Georgia in the South
Atlantic, experience of eldwork with vertebrates and
ideally large mammals would also be highly benecial.
The ideal candidate will also be able to work both inde-
pendently and as part of a team. A very high standard
of spoken and written English is required and a proven
track record of publishing in high quality international
peer-reviewed journals would be advantageous.
The working environment: The postdoc will join the
Homan lab, a young and dynamic group comprising
ve PhD students and two postdocs. They will be based
at the Department of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld Uni-
versity (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/vhf/index.html).
The department is the oldest of its kind in Germany
and currently hosts around six principal investigators,
ten postdocs and twenty PhD students. It oers a
stimulating international environment and an excellent
research infrastructure including brand new molecular
laboratories. The working language of the Department
is English. The postdoc will also have the opportu-
nity to interact closely with the cooperation partner
(Dr Jaume Forcada) during two Antarctic eld seasons
and via placements at the British Antarctic Survey in
Cambridge.
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attrac-
tive internal and external training and further train-
ing programmes. Employees have the opportunity to
use a variety of health, counselling and prevention pro-
grammes. Bielefeld University places great importance
on a work?Cfamily balance for all its employees. Biele-
feld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attractive
historical centre and easy access to the Teutoberger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers122 EvolDir January 1, 2018
a very high standard of living and is well connected to
most major European cities.
The collaborative research centre: The postdoc will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU ScienticCoordinator
Dear Prof. Golding, could you please circulate the job
advert below via EvolDir and put it in the Postdoc
section of EvolDir.
1 Postdoc (50%) position as a scientic coordinator
A half-time Postdoc position as a scientic coordinator
is available at the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld Uni-
versity, in the Department of Animal Behaviour (with
Prof. Oliver Krueger, see http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/animalbehaviour). The position runs from early
2018 to the end of 2021 and is funded by the German
Research Foundation (DFG) within the recently ap-
proved collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across
Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche
Conformance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The tasks of the scientic coordinator are to assist the
speaker of the collaborative research centre in all tasks
related to the running of the centre.
The collaborative research centre: The postdoc will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 9 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of Muenster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
- Organisational tasks (100%):- Planning and coordination of meeting and conferences
of the SFB/TRR 212
- Assistance to the spokesperson in communicating with
members of the collaborative research centre
- Keeping the webpage of the collaborative research
centre up to date
- Writing outreach material for dissemination to the
public and the media
Applicant's prole
We seek a bright and highly motivated postdoctoral
researcher with
- a university degree in a relevant discipline, e.g. biology,
- a completed PhD in a relevant eld, ideally related to
behavioural ecology or evolutionary ecology,
- experience with coordinating science projects,
- experience with organising scientic meetings and con-
ferences,
- experience in public outreach and media activities,
- ability to work both independently and as part of a
team, and
- excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage:
- experience in coordinating a group of people
- experience with large-scale research projects.
Remuneration
Salary will be paid according to Remuneration level 13
of the Wage Agreement for Public Service in the Federal
States (TV-L).
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attrac-
tive internal and external training and further training
programmes. Employees have the opportunity to use
a variety of health, counselling, and prevention pro-
grammes. Bielefeld University places great importance
on a work-family balance for all its employees.
Application procedure
To apply, please provide: (i) a letter of motivation in-
cluding a statement of your skills and experience relevant
to the position; (ii) a CV including publication list; (iii)
names and contact details of two referees willing to write
condential letters of recommendation. All
materials should be emailed as a single PDF le to:
oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de. The application dead-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 123
line is January 7th 2018 and interviews will take place
shortly thereafter. After the decision, the position
should start as soon as possible. For further informa-
tion on the project and the department, please contact
Oliver Krueger oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de with any
informal inquiries.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities.
Bielefeld University has received a number of awards for
its achievements in the provision of equal opportunity
and has been recognized as a family friendly univer-
sity. The University welcomes applications from women.
This is particularly true with regard both to academic
and technical posts as well as positions in Information
Technology and Trades and Craft. Applications are
handled according to the provisions of the state equal
opportunity statutes. Applications from suitably quali-
ed handicapped and severely handicapped persons are
explicitly encouraged. With best wishes, Oliver Kruger
Prof. Dr. Oliver Kruger Department of Animal Be-
haviour VHF
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU
TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcol
*2 Postdoc positions in Theoretical Evolutionary Ecology
at Bielefeld University, Germany (application deadline:
January 7, 2018)*
Two Postdoc positions in theoretical evolutionary ecol-
ogy are available at the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld
University, one position in the Department of Evolution-
ary Biology (with Prof. Dr. Klaus Reinhold, see http:/-
/www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/Evolutionsbiologie) and
one position in the Department of Theoretical Biology
(with Jun.Prof. Dr. Meike Wittmann, see www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/theoreticalbiology). The positions
run from early 2018 to the end of 2021 and are funded
by the German Research Foundation (DFG) withinthe recently approved collaborative research centre
(SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC^3).
The aim of both Postdoc projects is to develop ecological
and evolutionary theory to contribute towards a bet-
ter understanding of intra-specic niche variation. One
project is entitled \Local population density as a key di-
mension of the individualised niche: An eco-evolutionary
modelling approach" (sub-project D03 of the collabo-
rative research centre, with Meike Wittmann, http://-
www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/D03.html). This
project will explore how individuals and populations
respond to spatial variation in population density, and
how the various response modes (genetic variation, phe-
notypic plasticity) feed back on patterns of population
density and also inuence the population's ability to per-
sist in the face of habitat loss or habitat fragmentation.
This project involves collaborating with empirical groups
in the collaborative research centre. The other project
is entitled \Modelling adaptive individualised niches
in behaviour" (sub-project D04 of the collaborative
research centre, with Klaus Reinhold, http://www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212/D04.html). This theoreti-
cal project will explore the conditions that favour the
evolution of between-individual variation in behavioural
niches. The aim is to focus on mate choice and explo-
ration and examine to which extent phenotypic variation
can be maintained based on genetic dierences and vari-
ation in adaptive phenotypic plasticity.
The collaborative research centre: The postdocs will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 9 post-
docs and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld Univer-
sity, the University of M?nster and the University of
Jena. The aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual
and empirical synthesis of individualisation across be-
haviour, ecology and evolution. The SFB will provide
exceptional opportunities for interdisciplinary collabora-
tion and academic networking, together with structured
training, scientic exchange and early career support
programmes. Full details of the SFB can be found at
www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212 . Main responsi-
bilities: * Research tasks (90%): - Development of eco-
evolutionary models - Mathematical analysis of models
- Implementation in a programming language, e.g. in
R, C++, Python - Simulation studies - Collaboration
with other research groups in the collaborative research
centre - Writing scientic publications * Organizational
tasks in the research group and collaborative research
centre (10%)
Applicant's prole: We seek bright and highly motivated124 EvolDir January 1, 2018
postdoctoral researchers with * a university degree in a
relevant discipline, e.g. biology, mathematics, physics
or bioinformatics, * a completed PhD in a relevant
eld, ideally related to theoretical ecology, population
genetics, or * evolutionary ecology, * experience with
mathematical modelling, * programming skills in at least
one programming language (e.g. R, C++, Python), *
interest in both biological and mathematical questions,
* ability to work both independently and as part of a
team, and * excellent oral and written communication
skills in English.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage: * papers in peer-reviewed international jour-
nals, * experience in collaborations between empiri-
cists and theoreticians, and * experience with high-
performance computing.
Remuneration: Salary will be paid according to Remu-
neration level 13 of the Wage Agreement for Public
Service in the Federal States (TV-L).
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attrac-
tive internal and external training and further training
programmes. Employees have the opportunity to use a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BrownU EvoDevo
Brown University Postdoctoral Fellow position for Cell
and Developmental Biology
Location: Brown University, Molecular Biology Cell Bi-
ology Biochemistry Department (Providence, RI, USA)
We are looking to hire a talented full-time postdoctoral
fellow who conducts her/his independent research under
PI's supervision.
In our group, two major projects are currently under-
taken:
(1) Cell and Developmental Biology: Identifying how
germline factors contributes to cellular functions and de-
velopment, using sea urchin embryonic cells and human
cancer cells.
(2) Evolutionary Developmental Biology: Discoveringhow the molecular evolution alters the developmental
program and contributes to species diversity, using mul-
tiple echinoderm embryos.
Both projects require skills in embryology and live imag-
ing such as microinjection, optogenetic manipulations
of a protein, and 4D-confocal imaging. Experience in
Biochemical and bioinformatic approaches is also wel-
comed: these include Immunoprecipitation followed by
proteomic analysis or by RNA-seq to broadly identify
the targets.
A good accomplishment in her/his Ph.D. work with pub-
lications in the above relevant area is necessary. The
PI will provide any other necessary training both in
experiments and manuscript/grant writing. The suc-
cessful individuals are strongly encouraged to apply for
postdoctoral fellowships. The PI will guide her/him in
this process.
We greatly appreciate one's independent thinking, cre-
ativity, curiosity, enthusiasm, and hard working. The
successful individuals are expected to lead their projects
in an independent manner. This is an excellent job
opportunity for individuals who seek to develop their
own research and eventually to proceed to a next step
of their career in science in next 3 ~5 years.
Any interested individuals should contact me via e-mail:
mamiko yajima@brown.edu. Please enclose your CV,
reprints of your representative works (or a Ph.D. thes
is if appropriate), name of your thesis advisor. Reviews
will begin immediately and continue until position is
lled. Desired start date is after February 1, 2018.
Mamiko Yajima <mamiko yajima@brown.edu >
CBGP Madrid
PlantVirusCoevolution
Postdoctoral Position Available
We look for candidates to apply to the Spanish Pro-
gramme \Juan de la Cierva 2017" to do post-doctoral re-
search at the Plant-Virus Interaction and Co-Evolution
Group, Centro de Biotecnolog ~A^Aa y Genomica de Plan-
tas UPM-INIA (CBGP) (www.cbgp.upm.es)
Research topics: The long-term goal of the group is
to understand the evolution of plant-virus interactions.
Within this broad eld of research the post-doctoral
scientist to be recruited will participate in a programme
of research on Virus Emergence, specically on howJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 125
ecosystem simplication aects infection patterns, host
range evolution and virulence of multihost plant viruses.
Conditions: Conditions and application procedures are
specied at Ayudas para C ontratos Juan de la Cierva-
Incorporacion 2017 at (http://www.idi.mineco.gob.es/
portal/site/MICINN/menuitem. dbc68b34d1
1ccbd5d52 eb801432ea0 /?vgnextoid ^A50f421
5103f510VgnV CM1000001d0 4140aRCRD&v
gnextchanne lga04939e6b 42410VgnVCM 1000001d041
40aRCRD)
Specic advantages oered by Universidad Politec-
nica de Madrid (UPM) can be found at (http://-
www.upm.es/Investigacion/Programa Propio UPM)
Requisites: Applicants should have a Ph D degree ob-
tained between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2015,
with interests in evolutionary biology, genetics, molecu-
lar biology and /or ecology and should send their appli-
cation and CV to
Prof. FERNANDO GARC ~A^A ^A>^A1
2A-ARENAL fer-
nando.garciaarenal@upm.es
BEFORE DECEMBER 31 2017
For further information about the group: http:/-
/www.cbgp.upm.es/index.php/es/informacion-
cientica/interaccion- de-las-plantas-con-el-medio-
ipm/plant-virus
Recent publications of the group related to the above-
specied topics:
Fraile A. et al 2014. Host resistance selects for traits
unrelated to pathogenicity that aect tness in a plant
virus. Molecular Biology and Evolution 31: 928 - 939.
Hily J. M. et al. 2014. The relationship between host
lifespan and pathogen reservoir potential: An analysis
in the system Arabidopsis thaliana-Cucumber mosaic
virus. PLoS Pathogens 10: e1004492.
Roossinck MJ, Garc ~A^Aa-Arenal F. 2015. Ecosystem
simplication, biodiversity loss and plant virus emer-
gence. Current Opinion in Virology 10: 56-62.
Fraile A, Garc ~A^Aa-Arenal F. 2016. Environment and
evolution modulate plant virus pathogenesis. Current
Opinion in Virology 17: 50-56.
Poulicard N. et al. 2016. Human management of a
wild plant modulates the evolutionary dynamics of a
gene determining recessive resistance to virus infection.
PLoS Genetics 12: e1006214.
Bera, S. et al. 2017. Pleiotropic eects of resistance-
breaking mutations on particle stability provide insight
into life history evolution of a plant RNA virus. Journal
of Virology 91: DOI : 10.1128/JVI.00435-17McLeish, M. J. et al. 2017. Scale dependencies and gen-
eralism in host use shape virus prevalence. Proceedings
of The Royal Society B. Biological Sciences (in press).
{
Fernando Garc ~A^Aa-Arenal Catedratico de la Universi-
dad Politecnica de Madrid Centro de Biotecnolog ~A^Aa
y Genomica de Plantas (CBGP, UPM-INIA) Universi-
dad Politecnica de Madrid (UPM) - Instituto Nacional
de Investigacion y Tecnolog ~A^Aa Agraria y Alimen-
taria (INIA) Campus de Montegancedo-UPM 28223-
Pozuelo de Alarcon (Madrid) Spain Phone: (34) 91 336
4550/4539 Phone: (34) 91 715 77 21 Fax: (34) 917157721
fernando.garciaarenal@upm.es www.cbgp.upm.es Twit-
ter: @CBGP Madrid FaceBooK: @cbgpupm CBGP
Severo Ochoa
Fernando Garc ~A^A'a-Arenal
<fernando.garciaarenal@upm.es >
CharlesU CzechRep
PollinationEcology
***A postdoctoral position - Changes of pollination
networks characteristics along various environmental
gradients***
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoc to join a
project assessing studies of plant-pollinator relationships
in tropical and temperate environments. The research
is focused on changes of general characteristics of polli-
nation networks with environmental gradients, as well
as on case studies of selected pollination systems. All
the new team members will process already collected
data and material, as well as actively participate on eld
sampling (at least two larger expeditions during the job)
of data and their subsequent processing in collaboration
with international specialists. The length of the postdoc
is two and half years.
The successful applicant will become a part of the multi-
disciplinary team ( www.insect-communities.cz) at the
Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague, Czech
Republic, with a close collaboration with the Institute of
Entomology and Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of
Sciences. The eldworks will be performed in Cameroon
and/or Czech Republic. We have more than ten years
continuous experience with various eld projects in
Cameroon. All senior members of our team have also
worked in eld in the Czech Republic since their studies.126 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Oered for all positions
- attractive scientic topic in an established international
team
- sucient nancial and logistical sources for the projects
(currently we hold three large projects for pollination
research)
- 360,000 CZK net annual income for the post-doc
(salary), plus various employee bonuses; the income
suciently covers living expenses in the Czech Republic
(the national average net income is ca. 260,000 CZK
annually)
Required for all positions
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to work as a team member, but also being
independent
- uency in English, both written and spoken
Desirable (but not necessary) for all positions
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
All applicants will send a structured CV, contacts for
three referees, and a cover letter stating their previous
work, qualication (especially all eld experience and
less usual eld/laboratory techniques) and motivation
to our group email insectcommunities@gmail.com. Any
questions should be sent to the same email as well. The
review of applications will begin on 20th February 2018
and will continue until the position has been lled. Se-
lected applicants will be interviewed through Skype in
the rst ten days of March 2018. The postdoctoral
position from early summer 2018.
The postdoc will be collaborating on several our projects
from both tropical and temperate regions. She/he
should be mainly responsible for the network analyses
and comparisons of various datasets of plant-pollinator
interactions on the community level. Nevertheless,
she/he is expected to join also other aspects of our
pollination research based on her/his skills, including
eld sampling, samples identication, measuring and
analyses etc. She/he will have an opportunity to join
our eld sampling in both Cameroon and Czechia. The
postdoc will be jointly led by Dr. Robert Tropek and
Dr.^A ©t~A an Jane eek.
***Specic requirements for this position***
- a Ph.D. degree in the relevant eld (in early spring
2018 at the latest)
- advanced skills in ecological networks statistical analy-
ses- enthusiasm for statistical revealing of ecological enig-
mas
- reasonable publication record
Desirable (but not necessary)
- reasonable knowledge of insects or plants
- experience with trophic interactions research
robert.tropek@gmail.com
CIHMID Cornell DiseaseEvolution
The Cornell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions and
Disease (CIHMID) is soliciting applications for post-
doctoral fellowships. Details can be found at http://-
cihmid.cornell.edu/postdoc.html . The CIHMID Post-
doctoral Fellows Program is intended to support inde-
pendent and innovative postdoctoral researchers working
in aliation with CIHMID labs at Cornell. Postdoctoral
Fellows are expected to maintain intellectual ownership
over their projects and will be provided with a mod-
est discretionary allowance to support their research,
in addition to a competitive salary and benets pack-
age. Application to the program is competitive, and we
anticipate 1-3 appointments per year.
*Applications for appointments to begin in Summer or
Fall 2018 will be due by February 26, 2018. Applicants
are required to confer with prospective host labs prior
to application.*
*Program Overview*
- CIHMID expects to appoint 1-3 postdoctoral fellows
this year, with each postdoctoral fellow supported for
a 3 year appointment conditional on satisfactory per-
formance. - CIHMID postdocs will be expected to de-
velop an independent, interdisciplinary research pro-
gram. CIHMID postdocs should have intellectual own-
ership of their projects and are expected to build bridges
between dierent disciplines, elds, and departments.
- Postdocs should be aliated with one or more CIH-
MID labs (listed at <http://cihmid.cornell.edu/faculty-
listing.html >) that can provide infrastructure and ac-
cess to resources. Working across multiple labs may be
seen as positive but is not a requirement. - Postdoctoral
researchers in the program will be provided with a va-
riety of professional development opportunities geared
toward transition into permanent academic positions. -
Appointments will be made at a salary of $50,000 per
year with full health and retirement benets, and willJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 127
be provided with up to $10,000 per year to support
expenses such as research costs, participation in confer-
ences, and purchase of small equipment and computers.
- The postdoctoral researcher will be encouraged to ap-
ply for external fellowships. If an external fellowship
application is successful, the external fellowship will
become the mechanism for support. CIHMID guaran-
tees that the postdoctoral research will not suer any
decrease in salary or benets from accepting an outside
fellowship and will increase the discretionary spending
allowance to $15,000 for each year of support on the
external fellowship. The postdoc will remain part of
the CIHMID program in order to take advantage of
professional development and other opportunities.
*Application Process*
- Application consists of CV, plan of proposed research
(3 pages maximum, excluding references), 2 letters of
recommendation to be submitted directly by the recom-
menders, and a statement of support from the prospec-
tive advisor. - Project proposals should be developed by
the applicant in consultation with the prospective asso-
ciated host lab or labs. Preliminary conceptions of some
potential projects will be posted on the CIHMID website
in early Deceber, but proposals need not be limited to
the listed projects. - Candidates will be selected based
on applicant track record and career promise, merit of
the proposed project, and t to CIHMID objectives. -
*Applications are due by February 26, 2018 *and can
be submitted at <https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/-
jobs/10542 >. Interviews will be conducted in March
and awards will be announced in the rst week of April.
Appointments may begin as early as Summer 2018. - We
welcome applications from candidates with diverse back-
grounds, including those underrepresented in biological
research science.
*Eligibility*
- Applicants should have been awarded a Ph.D. within
the last 3 years or should be graduating imminently. Ap-
plicants must receive their Ph.D. before the postdoctoral
appointment can begin. - Applicants who are already
established at Cornell will be considered only if they are
changing labs or substantially changing projects.
Brian P. Lazzaro, Ph.D.
Liberty Hyde Bailey Professor Director, Cornell Insti-
tute of Host-Microbe Interactions and Disease (CIH-
MID) Departments of Entomology and Ecology & Evo-
lutionary Biology Cornell University Ithaca, NY, 14853,
USA
tel: +1-607-255-3254 em: bplazzaro@cornell.edu
http://www.lazzaro.entomology.cornell.edu
http://cihmid.cornell.edu Brian Lazzaro<bplazzaro@cornell.edu >
ColoradoStateU
GenomicsBioinformatics
1-year Post-doc position in genomics/bioinformatics
We are seeking a dynamic individual to work on a study
of invasive, island mice genomes. This is part of a
broader eort to develop genetic biocontrol methods for
invasive rodents in island ecosystems. Our specic goal
for this position is to characterize the genomes of mice
from dierent island systems and identify regions that
are unique to each population. These regions will be
chosen as sites for genome editing in order to have po-
tential biological specicity for target populations. The
role of the individual we seek will be to help select the
best next-generation sequencing approach for identifying
unique genomic regions in wild mouse genomes, labo-
ratory work, and bioinformatics analyses. We expect
experience in one or preferably more next-generation
sequencing methods such as whole genome sequenc-
ing, Pool-seq, RAD-seq, RNA-seq, and Genotype-by-
sequencing and some bioinformatics experience. We
expect a candidate to have strong laboratory bench
skills including a clear understanding of the potential
biases of the data introduced at each step of the labo-
ratory process. Candidates must be enthusiastic about
the project and process to achieve study goals. This
study is part of a larger collaboration between multiple
universities and federal level agencies within multiple
countries. Thus, candidates must have strong interper-
sonal skills, professional presentation capabilities, and
scientic writing prociency.
This position will be housed at CSU under the super-
vision of Dr. Zaid Abdo and will be co-advised by
Dr. Toni Piaggio, USDA-APHIS-NWRC and Dr. John
Godwin at North Carolina State University.
For full position announcement and to apply go to:
http://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/52464 CSU is an
EO/EA/AA employer and conducts background checks
on all nal candidates.
Toni Piaggio, Ph.D. Research Scientist, Wildlife Ge-
netics National Wildlife Research Center 4101 La-
Porte Ave. Fort Collins, CO 80521 (970)266-6142
toni.j.piaggio@aphis.usda.gov
\Piaggio, Antoinette J - APHIS"
<Toni.J.Piaggio@aphis.usda.gov >128 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Columbia NYC Computational
Phylogenomics
Title: Post-doctoral Researcher in Computational Phy-
logenomics. Start Date: 2018 Flexible Department:
Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology (E3B).
School: Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia Uni-
versity. URL: http://eaton-lab.org A postdoctoral
researcher position is available in the Eaton lab at
Columbia University in New York City in the subject
of Comparative Genomics and Computational Phyloge-
netics.
Generally, our group studies plant diversication with a
focus on the ecological and evolutionary consequences
of hybridization/admixture, and the development of ge-
nomic and bioinformatic tools for studying phylogeny.
Projects often involve a combination of eld work (e.g.,
China/Tibet, Latin America), genomics/bioinformatics,
and programming.
Currently, one position is available to contribute to an
NSF funded project: Replicated Evolution of Leaf Form
in Neotropical Viburnum. This will involve analyzing
large-scale RAD-seq data sets in combination with a
reference genome to examine spatial variation in phylo-
genetic relationships across genomes and evolutionary
time-scales in a reticulate clade of neotropical trees.
Methodologically, a signicant focus is on spatial varia-
tion across the genome, and inferring phylogenies from
SNPs. Ideal candidates will have experience working
with genomic data, an interest in phylogenetic compar-
ative methods, and potentially in contributing to eld
work in Latin America. In addition to the designated
project, the candidate will be encouraged to pursue inde-
pendent and collaborative research related to additional
areas of interest.
Additional postdoc positions for independent research
are also available in the lab. For this type of position
inquire about specic postdoctoral fellowships.
* How to apply: * To apply send your application to
Deren Eaton (de2356@columbia.edu)with subject line
\Postdoc application". Please include a Cover Letter
(2 pages max) describing your research, your CV, con-
tact information for three references, and at least two
relevant publications.
* Requirements: * { Ph.D. in Evolutionary Biology or
related discipline. { Experience in computational ge-nomics or bioinformatics. { A record of scientic publi-
cations. { English language writing and communication
skills
Deren Eaton Assistant Professor Ecology, Evolution,
and Environmental Biology (E3B) Columbia Univer-
sity 1200 Amsterdam Ave New York, NY, 10027
de2356@columbia.edu
\de2356@columbia.edu" <de2356@columbia.edu >
CSIC Madrid RodentEvolution
Postdoctoral position: Genotype-phenotype associations
in the evolution of rodent sperm form and function.
The project deals with the evolution of morphology of ro-
dent spermatozoa. Work developed so far concentrated
on the role of sexual selection on the shape and size
of spermatozoa and how these inuence swimming pat-
terns. Future studies will deal with changes in dierent
lineages of muroid rodents (mice, voles and hamsters),
paying attention to the appearance of novel traits and
modications of the sperm head bauplan. Research
will focus on changes in sequence and regulatory evo-
lution of protamines and other genes that control de
formation of the sperm head in the nal stages of sperm
dierentiation.
Candidates should have a PhD degree, which should
have been obtained between 2013 and 2017. A good
publication record in high-impact journals is essential.
Duration of contract is 2 years.
Recent publications on this and related areas: L uke L,
Campbell P, Varea S anchez M, Nachman MW, Roldan
ER (2014) Sexual selection on protamine and transition
nuclear protein expression in mouse species. Proc Royal
Soc, B. 281:20133359.
L uke L, Vicens A, Tourmente M, Roldan ERS (2014)
Evolution of protamine genes and changes in sperm
head phenotype in rodents. Biol Reprod 90:67.
L uke L, Tourmente M, Dopazo H, Serra F, Roldan ERS
(2016) Selective constraints on protamine 2 in primates
and rodents. BMC Evol Biol 16:21.
L uke L, Tourmente M, Roldan ERS (2016) Sexual se-
lection of protamine 1 in mammals. Mol Biol Evol 33:
174-84.
Vicens A, Tourmente M, Roldan ERS (2014) Structural
evolution of CatSper1 in rodents is inuenced by spermJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 129
competition, with eects on sperm swimming velocity.
BMC Evol Biol. 14:106.
Tourmente M, Villar-Moya P, Rial E, Roldan ER (2015)
Dierences in ATP generation via glycolysis and ox-
idative phosphorylation and relationships with sperm
motility in mouse species. J Biol Chem 290: 20613-26.
And see also: https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Eduardo Roldan/contributions Please send CV before
2 January 2018 to: Eduardo Roldan, Reproductive Biol-
ogy and Evolution Group, Dpt of Biodiversity and Evo-
lutionary Biology National Museum of Natural Sciences
(CSIC), Madrid, Spain Email: roldane@mncn.csic.es
roldane@mncn.csic.es
DalhousieU MarineGenomics
Support is available for a postdoctoral position at Dal-
housie University (Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada) for
research on the genomics of commercially exploited
marine shes. The successful candidate will have a
background in bioinformatics and genomics, including
genome assembly, and will be co-supervised by Paul
Bentzen (paul.bentzen@dal.ca) and Daniel Ruzzante
(daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca; http://ruzzante.ca ). The
project will involve collaboration with Fisheries and
Oceans, Canada (DFO).
The position is available for 2 years, starting as soon
as a suitable candidate is found. The successful can-
didate will be hired for one year, renewable for the
second year pending satisfactory performance. Appli-
cants please send a statement of research interests, CV,
copies of up to 4 publications and the names and e-mail
addresses of two people willing to act as academic refer-
ences to: Daniel Ruzzante (daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca) and
Paul Bentzen (paul.bentzen@dal.ca).
Review of applications will start January 1.
Informal inquiries are welcome.
Dr Daniel E Ruzzante, Killam Professor Canada
Research Chair in Marine Conservation Genet-
ics (2002-2012) Department of Biology, Dal-
housie University, Halifax, NS, Canada - B3H
4R2 ph:(902)494-1688 fax:(902)494-3736 http://-
ruzzante.ca/ Daniel.Ruzzante@Dal.CaDukeU SocialMammalGenomics
Post-doctoral position in social mammal behavior and
genetics
A postdoctoral position in social mammal behavior and
genetics is available in the Tung lab <http://www.tung-
lab.org/index.html >at Duke University. Our current
research <http://www.tung-lab.org/research.html >
focuses on the biological consequences of social rela-
tionships and social stressors in primates and other so-
cial mammals, using genomic and computational tools.
Open project areas involve the functional genomic anal-
ysis of life history trade-os in wild meerkats and gene
regulatory signatures of social experience in wild ba-
boons and captive rhesus macaques. Applicants are
also encouraged to be creative in developing their own
projects, as long as they t within the lab's general
interests.
Postdoctoral applicants should have a strong back-
ground in evolutionary biology, behavioral ecology,
and/or functional/computational genomics. Strong data
analysis skills, including programming and statistical
modeling experience, are essential. Familiarity or expe-
rience with mammalian behavior or genetics is a plus.
The Tung lab oers a congenial research environment
that fosters strong interdisciplinary training and col-
laborative exchange. The lab is based in Duke's
Department of Evolutionary Anthropology <http:/-
/evolutionaryanthropology.duke.edu/ >, and is ali-
ated with the Duke Department of Biology <http://-
biology.duke.edu/ >, the Center for Genomic and Com-
putational Biology <https://genome.duke.edu/ >, and
the Duke Population Research Institute <https://-
dupri.duke.edu/ >. Depending on research project, the
successful may work under the co-mentorship of Dr.
Luis Barreiro <http://luis-barreirolab.org/ >at the
University of Chicago.
To apply for the position please send an email to Jenny
Tung (jt5@duke.edu) including a cover letter, current
CV, and contact information for at least two references.
Duke University is an Equal Opportunity Employer
dedicated to building a diverse academic community.
Jenny Tung Associate Professor Departments of Evolu-
tionary Anthropology and Biology Duke Population Re-
search Institute jt5@duke.edu 919-668-4912 www.tung-
lab.org \Jenny Tung, Ph.D." <jenny.tung@duke.edu >130 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Harvard
MalariaParasiteFunctionalGenomics
Position: Postdoctoral Fellow
The Neafsey Lab at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of
Public Health is seeking a Postdoctoral Associate to
contribute to our research program in the evolution-
ary genomics of malaria biology and disease ( https:/-
/sites.sph.harvard.edu/neafsey-lab/). The successful
candidate will work collaboratively with other group
members to develop innovative empirical approaches for
exploring the functional consequences of Plasmodium
parasite polymorphisms that may contribute to drug
resistance and/or immune evasion. Approaches may
include but are not limited to CRISPR/Cas9 genome
editing and transcriptomics (bulk and single cell). Our
lab has a strong tradition of generating and analyz-
ing large genomic datasets from malaria parasites and
vector mosquitoes to understand mechanisms of dis-
ease evolution, transmission, population dynamics, drug
resistance, immune evasion, and host-pathogen inter-
actions. We are now looking to extend that work into
the phenotypic realm to functionally validate parasite
polymorphisms that may impact public health.
Ideal applicants will have a PhD in a relevant eld,
with strong background in molecular biology and/or
molecular genetics, ideally in the context of malaria or
other infectious diseases. The successful candidate will
join a diverse group with expertise that spans molecular
epidemiology, computational biology, and evolutionary
genomics and transcriptomics. Applicants will be ex-
pected to develop a research program that is original
but ts within the general priorities of the team, taking
into account the relevant literature, own experience, and
advice from other scientists. Candidates are required
to have a Ph.D. in biology/molecular biology/molecular
parasitology or equivalent. Strong molecular biology
laboratory skills are essential, previous experience with
in vitro culture and manipulation of Plasmodium or
other eukaryotic parasites strongly desired.
Additional experience in CRISPR/Cas9 and RNAseq
would be advantageous. Candidates should demonstrate
a track record of consistent publication, have strong or-
ganizational, written, and oral communication skills,
and be able to work both independently and as part of
a team.
Please contact Daniel Neafsey by email: neaf-sey@hsph.harvard.edu with CV, letter of interest, and
names of at least three references.
We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability status,
protected veteran status, or any other characteristic
protected by law.
neafsey@hsph.harvard.edu https://-
sites.sph.harvard.edu/neafsey-lab/ https:/-
/twitter.com/dneafse Daniel Neafsey
<neafsey@broadinstitute.org >
Ifremer France MarineBiodiversity
*Post doctoral position : Improving marine biodiversity
inventories through eDNA analysis*
*Context*
The knowledge and understanding of the ecology and
evolution of the marine realm requires an enhanced
appraisal of marine biodiversity and of the biotic and
abiotic drivers of its distribution and evolution. Yet
the very rst step, that of inventory, appears stumbled:
considering the pace of taxonomic description in 2015,
an estimated 10,000 years would be required to com-
plete the taxonomic descriptions and inventory of the
majority of the existing biodiversity, provided it would
be accessed and sampled. The recent improvement and
unprecedented acceleration of sequencing techniques
and the development of environmental genomics open
promising avenue for the development of methods allow-
ing the rapid and reliable characterization of biodiversity
and ecosystems status (Valentini et al. 2009, Creer et al.
2010, Hajibabaei et al. 2011), including in the deep sea
(Pawlowski et al. 2011, Sinniger et al. 2016) . Previous
studies have shown good evidences for the potential of
metagenomics in support of monitoring surveys(Ji et
al. 2013, Cowart et al. 2015, Pawlowski et al. 2015,
Aylagas et al. 2016, Cordier et al. 2017) and ultimately
leading to new tools and/or indicators to assess potential
impacts from industrial operations (Bista et al. 2015,
Lejzerowicz et al. 2015).
During a previous collaboration, Total and Ifremer de-
veloped protocols of metabarcode and compared their
eciency with classical morphological inventories (Cow-
art et al. 2015). Their aim in the EU H2020 project
\Atlas: A Trans-AtLantic Assessment and deep-waterJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 131
ecosystem-based Spatial management plan for Europe"
is to go one step beyond using constantly upgraded pro-
tocols (taking into account the evolution of molecular
and bioinformatics tools) in deep sea ecosystems includ-
ing Atlantic habitats among which potentially impacted
ones.
The post-doc is hired to contribute analyzing deep
sea sediment samples with the objective of compar-
ing and if necessary improving existing protocols based
on metabarcoding and capture methods. This will be
performed to fulll the needs of operational sites surveys
and feed comparative approach between eDNA based
and conventional taxonomic approaches. The objective
is to develop standardized molecular and bioinformatics
protocols and indicators for environmental impact as-
sessments, and consider the denition of new indicators.
*Skills:*
*Good background in community ecology, genomics and
bioinformatics
* eDNA analysis and interpretation
*Team work
*Rigorous laboratory methods and practices
*Good redaction skills
**
*Contact|:* Sophie Arnaud-Haond sarnaud@ifremer.fr
<mailto:sarnaud@ifremer.fr >
http://wwz.ifremer.fr/ *Duration of the contract|:*18
months
*Starting dates|:*between March 1 ^st and June 1 ^st
*2018*
*Candidatures sent by email before 08/02/2018|
:*Interviews between February 1 ^st and 15
*Lab|: *Ifremer, UMR MARBEC (Marine Biodiver-
sity, Exploitation and Conservation), Bd Jean Monnet,
BP 171, 34203 S ete Cedex
*References*
1.A. Valentini et al., Molecular Ecology Resources 9,
51-60 (2009).
2.S. Creer et al., Molecular Ecology 19, 4-20 (2010).
3.M. Hajibabaei, S. Shokralla, X. Zhou, G. A. C. Singer,
D. J. Baird, Plos One 6,(2011).
4.J. Pawlowski et al., Plos One 6,(2011).
5.F. Sinniger et al., Frontiers in Marine Science 3,(2016).
6.D. A. Cowart et al., PLoS ONE 10, e0117562 (2015).
7.Y. Ji et al., Ecology Letters 16, 1245-1257 (2013).8.T. Cordier et al., Environ Sci Technol 51, 9118-9126
(2017).
9.J. Pawlowski et al., Genome 58, 265-265 (2015).
10.E. Aylagas, ~A. Borja, X. Irigoien, N. Rodr guez-
Ezpeleta, Frontiers in Marine Science 3,(2016).
11.I. Bista et al., Genome 58, 197-197 (2015).
12.F. Lejzerowicz et al., Scientic reports 5, 13932
(2015).
Sophie Arnaud-Haond Ifremer UMR MARBEC (Marine
Biodiversity, Exploitation and Conservation) Bd Jean
Monnet, BP 171, 34203 S ete Cedex - France Tel: +33 4
99 57 32 61
Sophie Arnaud Haond <Sophie.Arnaud@ifremer.fr >
ImperialC London ProteinEvolution
Hi all,
a 3-year postdoctoral position is available at Imperial
College London and the MRC London Institute of Med-
ical Sciences (LMS) to work in the Molecular Systems
group headed by Dr Tobias Warnecke. You will also
closely interact with the Computational Protein Biology
group led by Joe Marsh at the MRC Human Genetics
Unit, University of Edinburgh.
We are looking for an outstanding postdoctoral scientist
to work on an exciting project at the intersection of
medical population genetics, molecular evolution, and
protein structural biology. The project is aimed at mod-
elling and predicting the joint impact of two or more
amino acid variants on protein structure and protein
complex formation, using globinopathies as a model
system. We want to explore how naturally occurring
variants, obtained from large population cohorts, inter-
act at the structural level when combined on a single
genetic background, to obtain view of population-wide
epistatic potential and to allow individualized disease
predictions that can be tested experimentally.
The project requires extensive computational modelling
of protein structure and interactions so advanced work-
ing knowledge of state-of-the-art modelling software is
highly desirable. You should be procient in at least one
programming/scripting language (java, python, etc.) as
well as R or Matlab and comfortable with carrying out
large-scale analysis in a computing cluster environment.
Candidates must have a strong publication record, ex-132 EvolDir January 1, 2018
cellent verbal and written communication skills, and
a track record of addressing scientic problems in an
innovative, thoughtful and systematic manner. Prior
knowledge of haemoglobin and/or red blood cell biology
is a bonus.
You will hold a UKRI Innovation Fellowship (UK na-
tionals) or a Rutherford Fund Fellowship (non-UK na-
tionals) and be part of a national cohort of fellows
funded by the UK Government's Industrial Strategy
fund. Locally, the fellow will be part of a diverse com-
putational/experimental research team with expertise
and wide-ranging interest in epigenetics, systems biol-
ogy, and molecular evolution (molsys.lms.mrc.ac.uk).
In addition, the fellow will benet from close interac-
tion with the Marsh group in Edinburgh (ed.ac.uk/mrc-
human-genetics-unit/research/marsh-group). Dedicated
support and career advice will be available through Im-
perial's Postdoc Development Centre.
Please contact Dr Warnecke for further information
about the post (tobias.warnecke@lms.mrc.ac.uk).
For full details of this post and to complete an online
application, visit https://mrc.tal.net/vx/lang-en-GB/-
appcentre-1/candidate/postings/802 and upload your
CV, names and contacts of two scientic references along
with a covering letter stating why you are applying for
this role (providing evidence against the requirements
of the job as per the job description and person speci-
cation). Please quote reference number LMS - 733.
Closing date: 11 January 2018 Final appointment will
be subject to pre-employment screening
*Salary quoted is inclusive of London weighting. Addi-
tional allowances comprise a 1,000 lump sum Settlement
Allowance plus a yearly Training Allowance of 850 in the
rst year, paid in monthly instalments. The Training
Allowance increases to 1,300 in year two, and 1,800 in
the third year.
Tobias Warnecke Group Leader Molecular Systems
Group MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences (LMS)
& Imperial College London http://molsys.lms.mrc.ac.uk
\Warnecke, Tobias" <tobias.warnecke@lms.mrc.ac.uk >
IowaStateU
SnakeEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc: Evolutionary Genomics of Garter Snake Life-
history StrategiesPostdoctoral Research Associate Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Organismal Biology Iowa State Univer-
sity
The Bronikowski lab is recruiting a Postdoctoral Re-
search Associate to study the evolutionary genomics -
including population, quantitative, and molecular selec-
tion analysis - of garter snakes (Thamnophis elegans)
from the Eagle Lake basin in California. Populations
of garter snakes in this vicinity are arrayed along a
slow-to-fast continuum of life history strategies, with
upper elevation populations comprised of individuals
that grow slowly, mature late, reproduce infrequently,
and live longer relative to lower-elevation populations.
The successful applicant will collaborate with myself
and colleagues on an NSF-supported project to analyze
allelic-time series for signatures of population genomic
response to recent extreme environmental change. Ad-
ditional projects could include quantitative genetic anal-
ysis of life-history traits, and molecular evolutionary
selection analyses of genomic regions, according to the
successful applicants interests. We will also leverage
the past 40 years of data on meta-population demog-
raphy, life-history evolution, stress-response evolution,
and behavior to test for population- or ecotype-specic
characters and alleles that correlate with population
persistence and through extreme environmental events.
We envision the principal duties will be 80% genetic,
computational and project management, plus some time
for supervising basic molecular lab work. There is also
opportunity for eld work if interested. Collaborators
on the project include Drs. Anne Bronikowski and Nick
Serao (Iowa State University), Dr. Stevan J. Arnold
(Oregon State University), Dr. David Miller (Penn State
University), and Dr. Amanda Sparkman (Westmont
College). Required qualications, terms of employment
and application instructions follow below.
Required Qualications
Education: A PhD degree in evolutionary genetics or
bioinformatics, or acceptable equivalent combination of
education and experience.
Experience/Skills: Experience with population ge-
nomic/transcriptomic data; demonstrated experience
working in a Linux/Unix shell environment; competency
with at least one scripting language (e.g., Perl, Python,
R). Demonstrated experience with population genomic
analyses for complex demography, admixture, and local
adaptation. Preferred experience or willingness to help
with annotation of the Thamnophis elegans genome.
Well-developed organizational and time management
skills, and leadership ability to direct (with the PIs) a
large and productive project.
Terms of AppointmentJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 133
Starting salary is dependent on previous post-doctoral
experience, (https://www.grad-college.iastate.edu/-
post doc/policies.php) plus benets. The position of
renewable for up to two years, pending satisfactory
progress. Start date is exible.
Application Instructions
For full consideration, applicants should apply by Jan
15, 2018. Informal inquiries are encouraged prior to
formal application. For formal application, please send
1) a cover letter, 2) a curriculum vitae, 3) a brief state-
ment of research experiences/interests, and 4) names
and contact information for three references to Dr. Anne
Bronikowski at broniko-job@iastate.edu.
Iowa State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. All qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information,
national origin, marital status, disability, or protected
veteran status, and will not be discriminated against.
Inquiries can be directed to the Director of Equal
Opportunity, 3350 Beardshear Hall, (515) 294-7612.
Please contact Anne Bronikowski if you have any ques-
tions about this postdoctoral position.
Anne Bronikowski, Professor Email: broniko-
job@iastate.edu https://www.eeob.iastate.edu/people/-
anne-bronikowski \Bronikowski, Anne [EEOBS]"
<abroniko@iastate.edu >
JacksonLaboratory Maine
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Dumont Lab at The Jackson Laboratory is seeking
a Postdoctoral Associate in the eld of mammalian evo-
lutionary genomics. Our group uses both wet-bench and
computational tools to understand the genetic mecha-
nisms and evolutionary processes that govern observed
patterns of DNA diversity. On-going projects in the
lab are investigating (i) inter-genomic conict and sex-
specic recombination rate divergence; (ii) the biological
basis of sex ratio distortion; (iii) patterns, causes, and
implications of mutation rate variation; and (iv) the
interplay between genetic variation and chromosomal
function at rapidly evolving loci like the pseudoautoso-
mal region and centromeres.
The successful candidate will be encouraged to develop
an independent research program that leverages themouse model system, extensive JAX resources, and in-
stitutional expertise to address basic questions about
where genetic diversity comes from, how it is maintained
in populations, and how the mechanisms that generate
genetic variation evolve over time.
The Jackson Laboratory (http://www.jax.org) in Bar
Harbor, Maine, USA, is recognized internationally for
its excellence in research, unparalleled mouse resources,
outstanding training environment characterized by sci-
entic collaboration, and exceptional core services - all
within a spectacular setting adjacent to Acadia National
Park. Translational research collaborations in genomics-
based, personalized medicine are fostered through our
JAX Genomic Medicine campus in Farmington, CT.
In addition to lab-based training, JAX has developed
a unique program for trainees to expand their profes-
sional skills in science communication, entrepreneurship,
teaching, mentoring and laboratory management to best
prepare postdocs for future career opportunities.
Required qualications include a recently obtained PhD
or MD in Genomics, Evolutionary Biology, Genetics or a
related eld, and a genuine enthusiasm for basic biologi-
cal research. Expertise with mouse genetics, computer
programming, and large-scale data analysis is strongly
desired, but not required. Ability to plan, execute and
analyze an independent research project is essential, as
well as exceptional verbal and written communication
skills. Preference will be given to self-motivated and
career oriented individuals.
To apply, please submit (1) a cover letter describing past
research accomplishments, research interests, and career
goals, (2) a current CV, and (3) the contact information
of three references, as one PDF le. Apply online at
http://www.jax.org/careers/postdoc.html. Select link
for Bar Harbor position #6757.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, age,
mental disability, physical disability, medical condition,
sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, ancestry,
marital status, national origin, veteran status, and other
classications protected by applicable state and local
non-discrimination laws.
Beth Dumont <Beth.Dumont@jax.org >134 EvolDir January 1, 2018
KansasStateU
FishMicrobiomeEvolution
Postdoctoral Researcher Position at Kansas State Uni-
versity: Fish Microbiomes in Extreme Environments
We are searching for a motivated and independent post-
doctoral scholar interested in developing a research
project investigating how microbiomes of sh vary along
environmental gradients, how genetic and environmental
factors interact to shape microbiomes, and how vari-
ation in microbiomes may shape the ecological func-
tion of individuals and populations. The postdoctoral
scholar's research is expected to be integrated with our
studies of phylogenetically-independent lineages of live-
bearing shes that have colonized and adapted to toxic,
hydrogen-sulde-rich springs in Mexico. A core objec-
tive of the project is to use comparative analyses and
experimental approaches to understand how microbe-
animal interactions may facilitate adaptation to extreme
environmental conditions.
The position will be available in the laboratory of Dr.
Michi Tobler in the Division of Biology at Kansas State
University in Manhattan, KS (http://sulde-life.info).
The Division of Biology provides a highly interdisci-
plinary research environment, with focal strengths in
genomics, ecology, and evolution. Our division pro-
vides excellent opportunities for collaborative network-
ing with microbial ecologists, particularly through re-
cently funded initiatives that bring together researchers
from dierent universities in the state of Kansas to study
microbiomes of plants, soils, and aquatic environments.
In addition, candidates can leverage collaborative ties
with the laboratory of Dr. Joanna Kelley at Washing-
ton State University (https://labs.wsu.edu/genomes/),
which will provide added expertise in bioinformatics.
Beyond research, we will provide additional professional
development opportunities, emphasizing improvement
of teaching and mentoring skills, grant writing, and
obtaining skills for getting a permanent job.
Candidates are expected to have completed or be com-
pleting a PhD degree, to have strong written and oral
communication skills, and to be able to work both inde-
pendently and as part of a collaborative team.
Our lab provides a diverse and inclusive environment for
students and researchers, and we particularly welcome
applications from candidates with diverse backgrounds.
First and foremost, we are interested in recruiting cre-ative minds that have an interest in developing and
leading independent projects. Ideal candidates will also
have at least two of the following core competencies: (1)
experience with the analysis of microbiomes or a back-
ground in microbial ecology; (2) bioinformatics skills
relevant to the analysis of next-generation sequence
data; (3) experience with sh/aquatic biology in an
experimental or eld setting.
The appointment will be for up to two years, with an
initial appointment of one year and an extension based
on performance. Salary will be commensurate with
experience, and full benets are included.
Interested applicants should email Michi at to-
bler@ksu.edu if they have any questions. Applications
have to be submitted directly through Kansas State
University (http://careers.k-state.edu/cw/en-us/job/-
502903/fellow-post-doc-biology) and include a curricu-
lum vitae, a cover letter that includes a statement of
research interests that explicitly describes professional
qualications for the position in the context of research
goals, and contact information for three references.
The preferred start date is February 2018. Review of
applications will begin immediately and will continue
until the position is lled.
Michi Tobler Division of Biology Kansas State University
116 Ackert Hall Manhattan, KS http://sulde-life.info
Michi Tobler <tobler@ksu.edu >
Lausanne Switzerland
ExperimentalEvolutionDrosophila
Postdoctoral Position:| Experimental evolution in re-
sponse to chronic malnutrition in Drosophila
A postdoctoral position is available in Tad Kawecki's
group at the Department of Ecology and Evolution, Uni-
versity of Lausanne, Switzerland. We are looking for a
qualied and motivated researcher to study genomic and
molecular/physiological bases of evolutionary adapta-
tion to nutrient-poor diet in Drosophila. The project will
take advantage of a long-term evolutionary experiment,
in which replicate populations have been maintained
on an extremely poor larval diet for over 230 genera-
tions. These populations have evolved a variety of life
history, physiological and behavioral adaptations to this
nutritional stress, as well as modied interactions with
pathogenic and benecial bacteria. Genome resequenc-
ing and gene expression proling point to candidateJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 135
genes and pathways that may mediate these evolution-
ary changes. The general aim of the project is to verify
some of these candidates and gain a deeper insight
into the underlying mechanisms. Possible approaches
include genetic mapping, detailed analysis of gene ex-
pression and molecular phenotypes and manipulative
experiments using Drosophila genetic toolkit. For more
information see Erkosar et al. (2017) mBio 8:e01496-
01417 and Vijendravarma et al. (2015) Ecology Letters
18:1078-1086.
The project requires a combination of experimental and
statistical/genomics skills, interest in adaptive evolu-
tion, and independence in designing and carrying our
experiments. Experience with Drosophila or knowledge
of insect physiology are a plus but are not required. The
research group is English-speaking and no-preexisting
knowledge of French is required, but learning basic
French would make living in Lausanne easier. In addi-
tion to work on the project, the holder of the position is
expected to contribute up to 25% of the working time
to teaching activities, including supervision of master
students.
The candidate is expected to start within the rst four
months of 2018. The position is at 100% (lower rate
is negotiable e.g. for family reasons), with the annual
salary of about CHF 80,000 (about US $80,000 or Euro
68,000). The position is initially oered for one year; a
possible extension for additional two years will depend
on the funding situation and the progress of the project.
Lausanne is a medium-sized city on the shores of Lake
Geneva, surrounded by a wine growing region recognized
as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and within one hour
of the Alps. It oers a great variety of cultural, recre-
ational and outdoor opportunities. The Department of
Ecology and Evolution (www.unil.ch/dee) is a vibrant
research community, with 20 research groups, over 100
graduate students and over 40 postdocs.
To apply, submit a motivation letter, your cv, a descrip-
tion of your research experience and interest, and the
names and contact information of 2-3 referees. The ap-
plication material must be uploaded through the UNIL
online recruitment platform at http://bit.ly/2BFXdUP
(you may have to create an account in the system rst).
For questions concerning the position, please send an
email to Tadeusz.Kawecki@unil.ch. The review of ap-
plications will start on December 15 and will continue
until a suitable candidate is found.
Tadeusz Kawecki <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >LosAlamosNatlLab
ComputationalBiol
Job title: Postdoc position in computational biology
When: Starting January 2018 or later for a 2-3 year
appointment Org name: T-6, Theoretical Biology &
Biophysics, and CNLS Description: A postdoctoral po-
sition is available at Los Alamos National Laboratory to
investigate the connection between virus genetic evolu-
tion and epidemic spread. Many viruses evolve rapidly
and dierently during various modes and rates of spread.
This project will elucidate how the genetic evolution is
linked to dierent spread patterns. The main virus to
be studied is HIV, but other pathogens may become
included in the project. We are looking for candidates
with expertise in computational biology, evolutionary
biology, and/or phylogenetics with interests in math-
ematical epidemiology. The successful candidate will
develop models connecting evolution and epidemiology
with the ultimate goal to predict and prevent human
epidemics.
This position may be jointly associated with the Center
for Nonlinear Studies depending on the candidate and
how the specic project is formulated.
Job Requirements Minimum Job Requirements: Experi-
ence with computer modeling. Experience with genetic
evolution modeling and phylogenetics. Demonstrated
ability to publish peer-reviewed papers, eective written
and oral communication skills, willingness to work in
a team environment, and a Ph.D. pending or received
within the last ve years.
Desired Skills: Software development experience: R,
perl, Python, C, or other appropriate language for anal-
yses and model development. Understanding of virus
systems and pathogenesis. Experience in mathematical
epidemiology, ecology, population genetics or similar.
Education: PhD in related eld completed within the
past ve years or soon to be completed.
Notes to Applicants: Please contact Dr. Thomas Leitner
(tkl@lanl.gov) for more information.
Candidates may be considered for a Director's Fellow
or Metropolis Fellow, and outstanding candidates may
be considered for the prestigious Distinguished Fellows
positions.
\Leitner, Thomas Kenneth" <tkl@lanl.gov >136 EvolDir January 1, 2018
McGillU PopulationGenetics
*Postdoc and PhD projects in* *mathematical and sta-
tistical population genetics at McGill University in Mon-
treal, Canada*.
The projects aim to develop mathematical, statistical,
or computational models to better understand human
genetics, human history, and disease. Sample projects
are outlined below. The positions are fully funded, and
the candidates should expect to work on theoretical
ideas in statistics, machine learning, algorithms, and
stochastic systems as well as applications.
Candidates should have:
- a strong background in mathematics, statistics, pro-
gramming, or related elds;
- demonstrated interest in biology, evolution, or medical
research;
- a curious and creative mind.
Applications and queries should be sent to Simon Gravel
gravellab@gmail.com. Please include a statement of in-
terest (1 page or less), a CV, contact information for
three references, and a low-resolution scan of transcripts
(for prospective PhD students).
*Project 1: Genetics, Human history, and health*
Goals: to develop mathematical and statistical models
of human genetic diversity; to rene our understanding
of human history, demography, and disease risk; and to
improve our ability to diagnose and treat individuals in
diverse populations
*Project 2: Tumor heterogeneity*
Goals: to build models of tumor heterogeneity in pri-
mary and metastatic tumors through simulation and
mathematical models; to answer fundamental questions
about cancer progression and resistance to treatment;
and to help interpret the latest generation of tumor
sequence data.
*Project 3: Genetics, Genealogies, and Evolution*
Goals: to develop statistical models that combine ge-
netic and genealogical data to learn about the trans-
mission history of alleles over generations and identify
evidence for selection or disease-causing alleles.
simon.gravel@gmail.comNorthDakotaStateU
EvolutionaryGenomics
Position: Postdoctoral Research Associate
Location: North Dakota State University, Department
of Biological Sciences, Fargo, ND
Research Area: Evolutionary Genomics of non-model
Allopolyploids
A highly motivated and talented postdoctoral fellow is
sought to join the lab of Dr. Jill Hamilton in the De-
partment of Biological Sciences at North Dakota State
University (NDSU). The position is a 2 year fellow-
ship, renewable upon satisfactory performance following
the rst year, and may be extended further as fund-
ing permits. The anticipated start date is exible with
possible start date of early 2018 or soon after hiring ap-
proval. The successful candidate will develop research in
plant evolutionary genomics, focusing on the role whole
genome duplications have played in plant evolution.
The postdoctoral fellow will interact with the Hamilton
Lab at NDSU and collaborators using a combination
of whole-genome sequencing and transcriptomics data
to test hypotheses regarding the evolution of duplicate
genes across heterogeneous environments in a non-model
allopolyploid, Geum triorum. The postdoctoral fellow
will be expected to analyze large datasets and lead prepa-
ration and publication of peer-reviewed manuscripts and
present ndings from the research project. In addition,
there will be ample opportunity to pursue research ques-
tions besides those of the particular study. Salary is
commensurate with experience.
Candidates must have 1) a Ph.D. in biology, evolution,
genetics, or related area from an accredited university, 2)
demonstrated experience working with next-generation
sequence data and large genomics data sets, 3) strong
oral and written communication skills, and 4) demon-
strated ability to work independently and as part of a
collaborative team.
Preference will be given to candidates with experience
or demonstrated interest in 1) plant evolution and ecol-
ogy, 2) quantitative genetics and statistical modeling,
3) documented ability to successfully publish, including
rst-author publications 4) mentoring graduate and un-
dergraduate students, 5) grant writing, 6) promoting a
culture of safety in the laboratory, and 7) laboratory
management skills.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 137
Applicants must submit a cover letter, a curriculum
vitae, a description of research experience (2 pages max-
imum), and contact information for three professional
references. All application materials must be submitted
online at: www.jobs.ndsu.edu Review of applications
will begin January 5, 2018 and continue until the posi-
tion is lled.
Questions regarding the search may be sent to
jill.hamilton@ndsu.edu. Additional position information
can be found at: https://jobs.ndsu.edu/postings/8815
Jill Hamilton Assistant Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences North Dakota State University Fargo, ND,
USA 58102
\Hamilton, Jill" <jill.hamilton@ndsu.edu >
NYU AbuDhabi
MangrovePopulationGenomics
Post-doctoral Researcher Opening: Mangrove Genomics
New York University Abu Dhabi (NYUAD) is seeking
a Post-Doctoral Researcher who will apply genomics
to study the locally abundant, pan-tropical gray man-
grove, *Avicenna marina*. NYUAD is located on the
shores of the Persian/Arabian Gulf, an area that is
at the northern margins of this species' ^A range and
where environmental conditions (temperature ranges,
salinity, aridity) are extreme. The core focus of the
Post-doctoral Researcher' ^As role will be to use a pop-
ulation genomics approaches to identify regions of the
mangrove genome under positive selection in response
to extreme temperatures and highly saline conditions
using various populations in the Arabian Gulf, Arabian
Sea, and Red Sea. As part of a larger integrated re-
search project, the Post-doctoral Researcher will also
work closely with researchers who will be developing a
reference genome for *Avicenna marina* and investigat-
ing the inuence of abiotic stress at the transcriptomic
and metabomic level. The candidate would be encour-
aged to expand this core research to address broader
evolutionary/ecological questions.
The Post-Doctoral Researcher will work in the
NYUAD marine biology laboratory ( https://-
nyuad.nyu.edu/en/research/centers-labs-and-projects/-
marine-biology-lab.html) under PI John Burt with
day-to-day supervision by Research Scientist Ed Smith,
and will closely collaborate with researchers in the
NYUAD Laboratory of Algal, Systems, and Syn-thetic Biology headed by PI Kourosh Salehi-Ashtiani
(https://lassb.abudhabi.nyu.edu/index.php).
To be successful in this role you MUST possess the
following essential traits:
- PhD in Biology or equivalent [only those with PhDs
completed on/before April 2018 can be considered].
- A strong publication record with rst-author experi-
ence
- Research experience in population genetics
- Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to liaise
with external stakeholders, employees, management and
students.
DESIRABLE experience/qualications:
- Experience in population genomics
- Experience with other 'Vomics
- Experience linking genomics and ecological perfor-
mance
- Experience working on mangroves
- Boat operator certication (e.g. powerboat skipper,
etc)
- Dive certication from an accredited agency (PADI,
BSAC or similar organization)
- Ability to conduct multiple, possibly divergent, re-
search projects simultaneously
- Ability to train and mentor undergraduate students
- Ability to plan, allocate, and monitor research budgets
for projects
- Experience leading permit requests for research collec-
tions (nationally and internationally)
- Valid driver' ^As license in home country
- International research experience
The position begins September 2018. This will be a two-
year xed-term contract position, potentially renewable
for a third year based on successful performance. Salary
is competitive and will be contingent on experience. In
addition, the position will come with an attractive salary
and benets package including a housing allowance, an-
nual ights, and tuition for children (if relevant), and
medical insurance. Salary and benets are free from
income tax in the UAE. Hiring is contingent on success-
ful clearance of security, health, and reference checks,
among other HR-related parameters.
APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS: The closing date for
applications is 10 January 2018. Applicants should
create a single PDF le that includes a cover let-138 EvolDir January 1, 2018
ter (max 2 pages) that specically refers to qualica-
tions/experience related to the lists above, a curriculum
vitae that includes the names and contact information
for three research-related references, as well as copies of
recent relevant lead-author publications. Please email
this application le to John.Burt@nyu.edu with the text
'^A ¥MANGROVE APPLICATION' ^A in the subject line.
Only short listed candidates will be contacted for an
interview.
John Burt <john.burt@nyu.edu >
Omaha NGS Conservation
Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo & Aquarium Department
of Conservation Genetics (OHDZA-CG) based in Om-
aha, Nebraska, is seeking a postdoctoral researcher with
interest/expertise in the generation and analysis of next-
generation sequencing data of lemurs, tortoises, and
other taxa from Madagascar.
omahazoo.comjmadagascarpartnership.org
RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES include the follow-
ing (other duties may be assigned):
The successful applicant will be procient in the con-
struction of genomic libraries and in-solution hybridiza-
tion methodologies for high-throughput sequencing as
well as all relevant analyses of large datasets, and man-
agement of next-generation sequence (NGS) workows.
Interested candidates should be highly motivated, orga-
nized, independent, and have extensive experience with
molecular genomics and bioinformatics, and be able to
eciently write and revise manuscripts. This individual,
in collaboration with a sta bioinformatician, will be
responsible for development, implementation, and sup-
port of software applications related to variant detection
and interpretation from high-throughput experiments
involving multiple species of lemurs, tortoises, and other
taxa from Madagascar. Assembly of whole genomes is
in-progress, but will likely require additional analyses
pertinent to specic research projects. Data from a
variety of species have already been generated, thus
candidates will be able to quickly start analysis and
manuscript preparation.
Travel to Madagascar to support the eld programs
of OHDZA-CG is required for a minimum of ve-week
intervals twice a year.
WORK SKILLS: * Strong people skills * detail-oriented
* willingness to learn and contribute * follow directions* meets deadlines.
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: * Applicants should hold
a PhD in bioinformatics, computer science, molecular
genomics or related eld and have more than one year of
experience in high-throughput genome sequence analy-
sis.Applicants should be experienced at software related
to NGS data and be able to manipulate genomic data for
phylogenetics and phylogeography. Our group's focus
is large-scale sequencing for phylogenetics, phylogeog-
raphy and evolutionary studies of lemurs, tortoises and
other taxa from Madagascar. * Thus, previous experi-
ence in genome assemblies, annotation, and analysis of a
variety of NGS pipelines is preferable. * The ideal candi-
date will be independent, highly motivated, productive,
have outstanding written and verbal communication
skills and be able to work eectively in a team with
members from diverse backgrounds. * The successful
applicant must be interested in interdisciplinary science
and eld research and have a solid publication record
that illustrates the ability to conduct novel, independent
research.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Candidates should have 3+ years of experience in molec-
ular biology, genetics, or bioinformatics. The position
requires prociency in programming (Perl or Python)
and knowledge of Bash scripting using Linux systems,
while familiarity with R is a plus. Prociency in C,
C++, Go, or similar systems language will warrant ad-
ditional consideration. Applicants are also expected to
be familiar with bioinformatics tools, able to implement
complex computational pipelines, incorporate genomics
databases and have extensive and creditable laboratory
experience with constructing genomic libraries. The
applicant will need to work closely with two full-time
technicians to manage NGS lab work, as well as with
a full-time bioinformatician. While in Madagascar, the
applicant will work with many Malagasy graduate stu-
dents on a variety of projects to assist with completion
of their degrees and peer-reviewed manuscripts. These
above duties require a candidate with excellent inter-
personal skills, and the ability to train and teach both
national and international audiences. The candidate
must also be able to jump between a variety of projects,
based on needs of the research group.
TIME FRAME:
These positions will be part of an on-going team of rotat-
ing postdoc fellows. One of the positions is expected to
begin in January 2018, while the second is expected to
start approximately May 2018. The initial appointment
will be for two years, with the possibility to extend to
three years.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 139
HOW TO APPLY
Applicants should submit their curriculum vitae, a
statement of research interests and career goals, and
a few publications. Please send materials to genet-
ics(at)omahazoo.com.
Genetics Department <genetics@omahazoo.com >
Paris
TheoreticalEvolutionaryEcology
Postdoc position in theoretical evolutionary ecology in
Paris (France)
A postdoc position, funded by the French National Re-
search Agency (ANR), is available to work with Florence
D ebarre and Fran cois Blanquart in Paris (Centre In-
terdisciplinaire de Recherche en Biologie, UMR CNRS
7241, Coll ege de France). We work in an interdisci-
plinary research group gathering biologists, probabilists,
and bioinformaticians; the lab is located in the Latin
Quarter in Paris.
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc interested
in developing mathematical and computational models
of evolution, to explore various aspects of the eects of
environmental heterogeneity and population subdivision
on local adaptation and diversication. Depending on
the postdoc's interest, these models may also be tailored
to describe the evolution of infectious diseases. Back-
ground (or a strong interest) in evolutionary biology /
ecology and strong quantitative skills are required for
the position.
The position can start on 1st March, 2018 or later, but
note that the funding runs out on 30th November, 2019.
Duration and salary are commensurate with experience
(see table below).
*To apply:* If you are interested in this position, please
send a CV, a 1-page description of your research inter-
ests and motivation, and the contact details of potential
references (all in one single pdf) to Florence D ebarre
( orence.debarre@college-de-france.fr ) and Fran cois
Blanquart ( francois.blanquart@college-de-france.fr ).
Review of applications will start on 22nd January 2018,
but will continue until the position is lled.
Feel free to contact us if you have any questions about
the position.
F.D ebarre and F.Blanquart*Salary and postdoc duration*
ExperiencejDurationjMonthly Salary (before tax)
<2y after PhDj18 monthsj2500 between 2 and 4y after
PhDj16 monthsj2800 ^ a ¥5y after PhDj14 monthsj
3200
*Our websites* FD: http://www.normalesup.org/-
~fdebarre/ FB: https://sites.google.com/site/-
francoisblanquart/ Team: http://www.lpma-paris.fr/-
smile/ Unit: http://www.college-de-france.fr/-
site/en-cirb/index.htm o.debarre@gmail.com
o.debarre@gmail.com
SanFranciscoStateU HIVEvolution
Position Type: NSF funded postdoc position at San
Francisco State University to work with Dr Pleuni Pen-
nings in the CoDE lab on tness costs of mutations in
HIV.
Lab website: https://pleunipennings.wordpress.com/
Position Description: I am looking for a postdoc to work
on a project funded by NSF, in collaboration with Dr
Adi Stern (Tel Aviv University) and Dr Robert Shafer
(Stanford University). The goal of the project is to
estimate the tness costs of mutations in HIV, which
will help us understand how the virus evolves and which
parts of the HIV genome are most important for the
functioning of the virus. All wet lab work for this project
will be carried out in Tel Aviv, so in San Francisco I
am looking for someone who is interested in doing the
programming, the statistics and the writing.
Requirements: PhD in Biology or related eld.
Other preferred qualications:
I am looking for someone with experience and interest
in several of the following domains: evolution, virology,
bioinformatics and statistics.
The preferred candidate will also have an interest in /
experience with one or more of the following: teaching,
working with students from groups who are tradition-
ally underrepresented in research, outreach (e.g., writing,
social media, video).
The preferred candidate will have experience with writ-
ing clear / understandable scientic prose as evidenced
by a writing sample.
Why this is a great opportunity:
You will be part of an extremely diverse department of140 EvolDir January 1, 2018
biology.
You will be working on an exciting project that bridges
virology and evolutionary genetics.
You will be able to contribute to training of students of
diverse backgrounds.
You will get the opportunity to work with people at
Stanford and Tel Aviv University (including trip to Tel
Aviv).
If you are interested to collaborate with people at Stan-
ford, UCSF or UC Berkeley, I will encourage that and
help set up contacts.
In the CoDE lab, you will work in a supportive environ-
ment where research is important, but papers are never
more important than people.
Appointment:
Funding is available for at least three years. Appoint-
ment will be for one year initially, but will be extended
for up to three years if expectations are met.
How to apply:
Send a 1-2 page cover letter, your CV, a recent paper (or
draft) written by you, and names and email addresses
for three references to pennings@sfsu.edu. Only pdf's
please!
Deadline: I will start looking at applications from Jan-
uary 4th 2018 and hope to hire as soon as possible after
that.
{ Pleuni Pennings Assistant Professor Department of
Biology, San Francisco State University
Website: http://pleunipennings.wordpress.com/ My
oce hours are 3-4 on Tuesday and 2-3 on Friday in
HH763.
Pleuni Pennings <pspennings@gmail.com >
StockholmU MarineMetabarcoding
Hi all,
We have just announced a 2-year Post Doc position
in Baltic Sea Ecology at Stockholm University, Dept.
Ecology, Environment and Plant Science; This posi-
tion is associated with the project \The role of cross-
community interactions between benthic above- and
below-ground organisms for ecosystem functioning" that
aims to understand how interactions between infaunaand epibenthic organism (primarily macroalgae and
their associated fauna) inuence ecosystem process rates
in Baltic Sea coastal areas. Of particular interest will
be cross-community interactions in coastal terraces; an
understudied habitat where drift macroalgae accumu-
late. This project will investigate how terraces inuence
abiotic sediment conditions, three major parts of the
benthic community and their interactions: sediment
microbiota (bacteria, meiofauna), macroinvertebrate
infauna, and epibenthos (algae and associated inverte-
brates). The successful candidate will focus on molecular
ecological workows, including DNA sequencing tech-
niques, to assess benthic microbial biodiversity, bioinfor-
matics and ecological modelling. The candidate should
have previous experience of eld sampling, molecular
ecology, high-throughput sequencing, bioinformatics and
ideally statistical network modeling or causal (piecewise)
modeling. More info at:
http://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-SU/-
jobs?rmpage=job&rmjob=4290&rmlang=UK The
positions are part of a strategic initiative at strengthen-
ing Baltic Sea research at Stockholm University; three
tenure-track professorships are also advertised (based
at Dept. Physical Geography and Dept. Geological
Sciences). We particularly seek scientists interested in
collaborative research related to dierent aspects of
the Baltic Sea environment. While each position has a
home department, the employees will enjoy being a part
of an interdisciplinary research team at the Stockholm
University Baltic Sea Centre. Deadline for applications:
January 15, 2018.
More information about the other positions, depart-
ments and application procedure can be found at
su.se/english/vacancies.
Best regards,
{ Best regards
Francisco Nascimento
Dept. of Ecology, Environment and Plant Sciences
Stockholm University
Francisco Nascimento <francisco@ecology.su.se >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 141
TelAvivU BacterialSocialEvolution
The Eldar lab at Tel-Aviv University is looking for a
highly motivated post-doc for a 3-4 years' period, to
work on an ERC funded project on the evolution of co-
operation and communication in bacteria. The post-doc
will take place in Tel-Aviv University in Israel.
Background: bacterial cooperation is often regulated
by cell-cell communication systems known as quorum-
sensing. Some bacterial mobile elements also code for
their own signaling systems and use it to regulate their
transfer or to manipulate their host behavior. The
aim of the project is to analyze the interplay between
bacterial and mobile-element quorum-sensing systems
and understand their impact on the evolutionary diver-
gence of quorum-sensing systems and mobile element
life-history strategies.
The proposed work combines:
1) Modeling the implication of a variety of processes on
selection for cooperation and conict between bacteria
and its mobile elements.
2) Analysis of data coming from a variety of sources,
including high throughput tness landscape data, time-
lapse microscopy and genomic data.
3) Active participation in the design (and preferably
implication) of experimental work.
Requirements: The applicant should ideally have
* A strong mathematical background
* Previous experience in evolutionary or systems biology
modeling approaches
* An interest (and preferably experience) in microbial
physiology, ecology and evolution.
*A good publication track record
Fellowship will depend on the applicant's record.
The work will be done at the faculty of life sciences
in Tel-Aviv University, the largest university in Israel
located at the heart of the city of Tel-Aviv.
avigdor@gmail.comTel-AvivU BatBehavioralEvolution
The Yovel lab: www.yossiyovel.com is searching for a
post-doc interested in dierent aspects of bat behav-
ioral ecology including echolocation, navigation, social
behavior and the brain.
Candidates must be U.S citizens.
Preferences will be given to candidates that have good
programming skills in Matlab, R or Python.
Applicants should send their CV to:
Yossi Yovel yossiyovel@gmail.com
Yossi Yovel <yossiyovel@gmail.com >
TempleU Phylogenomics
Multiple Postdoctoral Positions Temple University
Multiple postdoctoral positions are available in the com-
putational laboratory of Dr. Sudhir Kumar at Temple
University in Philadelphia, USA. Applicants are encour-
aged to apply if they are interested in one or more of
the following areas: (1) Development of methods for
estimating divergence times from multigene and genome-
scale datasets. (2) Empirical analysis of available large
molecular datasets to test biological hypotheses related
to species divergence times. And/or (3) Development of
software for estimating divergence times and timetrees.
Applicants should submit their detailed curriculum vi-
tae and a summary of research interests by e-mail to
s.kumar@temple.edu (send a single PDF le). It is ad-
vised that applicants survey our recent publications on-
line at http://www.kumarlab.net/publications/all (e.g.,
#142, #146, #149, #151, #154, #156, #158, and
#159). Priority will be given to applications received
by January 15, 2018, and applications will be reviewed
as long as funding is available. Positions are available
immediately. Please contact Sudhir Kumar by email
(s.kumar@temple.edu) with questions regarding these
positions.
Kumar laboratory is part of the Institute for Ge-
nomics and Evolutionary Medicine (iGEM; http://-142 EvolDir January 1, 2018
igem.temple.edu). iGEM provides an intellectually stim-
ulating, sophisticated, and multi-dimensional research
environment for young scientists. Temple University
located is in the heart of historic Philadelphia, and is
the sixth largest provider of graduate education in the
USA. Situated in close proximity to New York City
and Washington DC, Philadelphia is home to a large
biotech industry as well as many outstanding academic
and research institutions.
Contact: Sudhir Kumar (s.kumar@temple.edu)
Sudhir Kumar <s.kumar@temple.edu >
TempleU TumorEvolution
Multiple Postdoctoral Positions
Multiple postdoctoral positions are available in the com-
putational laboratory of Dr. Sudhir Kumar at Temple
University in Philadelphia, USA. Applicants with ex-
pertise in molecular evolution and interest in somatic
evolution of tumors are encouraged to apply. We are
equally interested in applicants with expertise in cancer
genomics and an interest in expanding their skills in
evolutionary analysis. Successful applicants will con-
tribute to the development of methods and tools for the
analysis of data from bulk and single cell sequencing
of tumors. They will also analyze large tumor genome
datasets to test biological hypotheses relating to the evo-
lution, persistence, and adaptation of clones in tumors.
This is a new research area with opportunities to make
fundamental contributions with a strong potential for
clinical relevancy. Applicants are encouraged to contact
us directly to learn more about current (unpublished)
research in our laboratory.
Applicants should submit their detailed curriculum vi-
tae and a summary of research interests by an e-mail
to s.kumar@temple.edu (send a single PDF le). Pri-
ority will be given to applications received by Jan-
uary 15, 2018, and applications will be reviewed as
long as funding is available. Positions are available
immediately. Please contact Sudhir Kumar by email
(s.kumar@temple.edu) with questions regarding these
positions.
Our computational laboratory is located in the Insti-
tute for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine (iGEM;
http://igem.temple.edu). iGEM provides an intellectu-
ally stimulating, sophisticated, and multi-dimensional
research environment for young scientists. We have col-laborations with Fox Chase Cancer center and other
laboratories studying cancer evolution experimentally.
Temple University located is in the heart of historic
Philadelphia, and is the sixth largest provider of gradu-
ate education in the USA. Situated in close proximity
to New York City and Washington DC, Philadelphia
is home to a large biotech industry as well as many
outstanding academic and research institutions.
Contact: Sudhir Kumar (s.kumar@temple.edu)
Sudhir Kumar <s.kumar@temple.edu >
Toulouse EvolutionaryBiology
IAST Research Fellowships in Evolutionary Biology,
The Institute for Advanced Study in Toulouse (IAST;
www.iast.fr) invites applications for post-doctoral re-
search fellowships in Evolutionary Biology, with a start
date of September 1, 2018.
We welcome applications from researchers with research
interests in any of the following areas: theoretical mod-
els of evolution (applied to family structure, strategic
interactions, plasticity, cognition, learning, cultural evo-
lution); related empirical work.
We seek candidates with a strong research background
in their own discipline, but willing and able to develop
research projects drawing on IAST's substantial interdis-
ciplinary resources, including particularly the proximity
of strong groups in economics (Toulouse School of Eco-
nomics, TSE). We are open to a variety of research
methods, including theory, eld and laboratory experi-
ments, observational eld work, and the analysis of large
secondary data sets. All research interests relevant to
the broad study of human behavior are welcome, but
interests close to those already developed at IAST will
be given special consideration.
Eligible applicants Active researchers who have or will
have completed their PhD after January 2015 and be-
fore September 2018. The IAST oers its researchers
an opportunity to devote themselves full time to their
research at the start of their careers. Motivated appli-
cations will be considered from candidates whose PhDs
were completed in 2014 or earlier; please explain your
reasons in your cover letter.
Conditions Fellows are provided with oce space, com-
puter facilities and a contract for two years, renewable
for a third year.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 143
All applications need to be sent through our website:
http://www.iast.fr/apply before December 31, 2017
Cynthia Diaz <cynthia.diaz@tse-fr.eu >
UBielfeld BehaviouralGenomics
Postdoc position in Behavioural Genetics and Genomics
A Postdoc position in behavioural genetics and genomics
is available at the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld Uni-
versity, in the Department of Animal Behaviour (with
Prof. Oliver Kruger, see http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/animalbehaviour). The position runs from early
2018 to the end of 2021 and is funded by the German
Research Foundation (DFG) within the recently ap-
proved collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across
Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche
Conformance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The aim of the Postdoc project (sub-project C03 of
the collaborative research centre) is to test whether
common buzzard (Buteo buteo) chicks respond in their
gene expression to dierent levels of blood parasite in-
fection. Additionally, the project aims to develop a
SNP-approach to nd loci associated with tness varia-
tion in this species. The project builds on a long-term
study of individually marked birds that by now lasts
for thirty years across over 2500 marked individuals.
Fitness data of adult buzzards as well as many other
phenotypic traits are routinely measured and should
be linked to genetic or transcriptomic data of buzzard
chicks.
The collaborative research centre: The postdoc will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 9 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of Muenster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
- Research tasks (90%):
- Development and analyses of genomic and transcrip-
tomic data sets- Analyses of microsatellite data sets
- Participation in eld work activities from April to June
each year
- Collaboration with other groups in the research centre
- Writing scientic publications
- Organizational tasks in the research centre (10%)
Applicant's prole
We seek a bright and highly motivated postdoctoral
researcher with
- a university degree in a relevant discipline, e.g. biology,
genetics or bioinformatics,
- a completed PhD in a relevant eld, related to be-
havioural genomics, population genetics, or evolutionary
ecology,
- experience with genomic and transcriptomic ap-
proaches and data,
- experience with relevant software packages,
- interest in both behavioural and genomic questions,
- ability to work both independently and as part of a
team, and
- excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage:
- papers in peer-reviewed international journals,
- experience in collaborations between eld biologists
and -omics-people, and
- experience with large-scale research projects.
Remuneration
Salary will be paid according to Remuneration level 13
of the Wage Agreement for Public Service in the Federal
States (TV-L).
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attrac-
tive internal and external training and further training
programmes. Employees have the opportunity to use
a variety of health, counselling, and prevention pro-
grammes. Bielefeld University places great importance
on a work-family balance for all its employees.
Application procedure
To apply, please provide: (i) a letter of motivation in-
cluding a statement of your research interests and skills
and experience relevant to the position; (ii) a CV in-
cluding publication list; (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of144 EvolDir January 1, 2018
recommendation. All materials should be emailed as a
single PDF le to:
oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de. The application dead-
line is January 7th 2018 and interviews will take place
shortly thereafter. After the decision, the position
should start as soon as possible. For further informa-
tion on the project and the department, please contact
Oliver Kruger (oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de) with any
informal inquiries.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities.
Bielefeld University has received a number of awards for
its achievements in the provision of equal opportunity
and has been
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCaliforniaIrvine
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Emerson lab at UC Irvine (http://emersonlab.org)
is soliciting candidates for an NIH funded postdoc-
toral position on evolutionary genomics in Drosophila.
The project aims to understand how genome structure
evolves, including traditionally challenging mutations
like tandem duplicate arrays and transposable element
insertions. We accomplish this by comparing genetic
variation within and between species on a genome-wide
scale discovered in reference-grade genomes comparable
in completeness and contiguity to the FlyBase assembly
of D. melanogaster. We are also functionally charac-
terizing structural mutations. Candidates joining the
lab will have access to dozens of cutting edge reference
grade genomes, including D. mauritiana, D. sechellia, D.
simulans, and D. teissieri as well as population samples
from D. simulans and D. melanogaster. Candidates will
ideally have interests broadly relevant to the theme of
structural variation but will also be oered opportuni-
ties to pursue their own interests and collaborations in
evolutionary genetics. For more information about the
project see the following:http://emersonlab.org/jobs/sv postdoc 2017.html The
Emerson lab is very collaborative and oers ample oppor-
tunities for interacting with other evolutionary genetics
labs at UCI ( http://emersonlab.org/collaborators/).
The successful candidate will have a PhD in one of the
following or related elds: evolutionary genetics, bioin-
formatics, computational biology, statistics, or experi-
mental genomics (especially high throughput sequencing
and/or functional genomics). The Emerson lab is al-
iated with the department of Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology, the Center for Complex Systems Biology, and
the Center for Evolutionary Genetics at UCI as well as
the Southern California Evolutionary Genetics Meeting.
Interested applicants should apply here:
https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04423 Review of
applications will begin on January 5th and will continue
until the job is lled. Consistent with UCI policy, the
duration of the position is dependent upon performance
(annual appointments, with potential for renewal), and
salary will be commensurate with experience. Applica-
tions should include: a CV; a research statement explain-
ing the candidate^ a euro s previous research experience
and future research objectives; and contact information
of two or more references. For more about the Emerson
lab and academic and professional environment at UCI,
visit: http://emersonlab.org/ Sincerely,
J.J. EmersonjAssistant Professor Ecology & Evolution-
ary BiologyjCenter for Complex Biological Systems
University of California Irvine
\jje@uci.edu" <jje@uci.edu >
UCalifornia Riverside
DataVizPhylogenomics
Postdoc: Interactive and Exploratory Data Visualiza-
tion Tools for High-Throughput -Omics Datasets
2.5 year postdoctoral position at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Riverside focused on the development of new
data visualization tools within the prototype Phinch
framework.
Phinch (http://phinch.org) is an open-source framework
for visualizing biological data, funded by a grant from
the Alfred P. Sloan foundation. This project repre-
sents an interdisciplinary collaboration between Pitch
Interactive (http://pitchinteractive.com/ - a data visu-
alization studio in Oakland, CA) and the Bik Lab at
UC Riverside (https://biklab.github.io). Typical userJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 145
applications for Phinch include environmental rRNA
amplicons or shotgun metagenomic data, although this
framework is being expanded to support any type of sam-
ple/observation data represented in a standard format
(RNA-seq, gene variants, phenotype character matrices,
etc.). The appointed candidate will work with the Pitch
Interactive studio to implement novel and interactive
visualization features, develop statistical tests as visual
plugin tools (e.g. via R shiny apps), and implement
new phylogenetic visualizations for microbial ecology
datasets. The postdoctoral scholar will also contribute
to software documentation and end user training work-
shops as needed.
Prospective applicants should review project aims out-
lined in the funded grant proposal (https://doi.org/-
10.6084/m9.gshare.5471809.v1) as well as these other
related resources:
* Phinch GitHub Wiki https://github.com/-
PitchInteractiveInc/Phinch/wiki * Bik HM, Pitch
Interactive (2014) Phinch: An interactive, exploratory
data visualization framework for -Omic datasets,
bioRxiv, doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/009944
(preprint)
Minimum Qualications:
Postdoctoral applicants should possess a Ph.D. in a bio-
logical or computational discipline, demonstrate a strong
publication record and ability to conduct independent
research. All applicants are expected to develop strong
written and verbal communication skills, as well as assist
in mentoring undergraduate and graduate students.
Desirable Qualications:
Prociency in a standard programming language
(Python or Javascript preferred), experience in biologi-
cal data visualization (e.g. using RStudio or D3.js), and
knowledge of common -Omics data types and workows
(e.g. analysis of rRNA amplicon datasets in QIIME,
experience with binning/assembly/functional analysis
of shotgun metagenomes, large phylogenomic analyses,
etc.). Applicants with expertise in phylogenomics, com-
parative phylogenetics, and/or statistical analysis in R
or Python are especially encouraged to apply.
Application and Appointment:
All appointments are initially for one year, and renew-
able based on performance. Salaries are commensurate
with experience and based on minimums set by the
University of California postdoctoral union. To apply,
submit a curriculum vitae, a 1-page statement of re-
search interests, and contact details for 2-3 academic
references to holly.bik@ucr.edu. Review of applications
will begin immediately, and will continue until the posi-tion is lled.
Please contact Holly Bik (holly.bik@ucr.edu) if you have
any questions about this postdoctoral position.
{ Holly Bik Assistant Professor Department of Nema-
tology University of California, Riverside 3401 Watkins
Drive Riverside, CA 92521 Email: holly.bik@ucr.edu
Phone: (+1) 951-827-4230
Web: http://biklab.github.io Twitter: https://-
twitter.com/hollybik holly.bik@gmail.com
UCambridge ComparativeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE: COM-
PARATIVE GENOMICS
We invite applications for a postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate position in the Department of Zoology in Central
Cambridge on Downing Street with Dr Stephen Mont-
gomery's research group. It is funded for up to 36
months by the ERC and should start on 1st February
2018 or soon after.
The PDRA will study comparative genomics and the
genetic basis of mushroom body expansion in Helico-
nius butteries. We have recently conrmed previous
reports that Heliconius have massively expanded mush-
room bodies, an insect learning and memory centre
(see Montgomery et al. 2016 J. Comp. Neurol. 524
(9):1747-1769). This provides a novel case study for in-
vestigating the genetic basis of volumetric expansion of
'higher order' brain regions. We are interested in using
comparative genomics and transcriptomics, in combina-
tion with extensive phylogenetic, neuroanatomical and
developmental work, to identify genes that contribute to
changes in mushroom body size, structure and function.
DUTIES WILL INCLUDE: - Designing and building
bioinformatics pipelines to carry out de novo genome
and transcriptome assemblies, using a combination of
sequencing technologies; - Designing and executing
genome/transcriptome assembly, orthology detection; -
Performing evolutionary analyses to investigate gene-
phenotype associations, adaptive molecular evolution
and gene duplication, dierential expression and regu-
latory evolution; - Data management; - Analysing and
writing up the results; - Contributing to the wider re-
search environment.
There is scope for the nature of the analyses to be shaped
by the interests of the candidate.146 EvolDir January 1, 2018
REQUIRED SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS: -
PhD in an appropriate subject (e.g. compara-
tive/evolutionary genomics, computational biology or
bioinformatics, etc.).
- An enthusiasm for comparative genomics and an
excellent understanding of key methodologies and
challenges of the eld; - Experience with large
genome/transcriptome datasets; - Excellent program-
ming and data management skills; - An interest in brain
and behavioural evolution, or phylogenetic tests of gene-
phenotype associations; - Ambition and drive, strong
work ethic and good interpersonal skills and a strong
publication record for their career stage; - Enthusiasm
to interact with colleagues; - Ability to organise time
and work eectively, independently and responsibly in
a research team setting.
FIXED-TERM: - The funds for this post are available
for up to 36 months in the rst instance. - The Uni-
versity values diversity and is committed to equality of
opportunity. - The University has a responsibility to
ensure that all employees are eligible to live and work
in the UK.
FURTHER INFORMATION: http://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/16043/ RESEARCH GROUP:
http://www.shmontgomery.co.uk Dr. Stephen
Montgomery
NERC Independent Research Fellow Dept. of Zoology,
University of Cambridge Downing St. Cambridge, CB2
3EJ Tel: 01223336678 Email: shm37@cam.ac.uk Twit-
ter: @eohomo Departmental webpage Personal webpage
Stephen Montgomery <shm37@cam.ac.uk >
UChicago ComputationalGenomics
Post-doctoral positions in computational genomics
Two postdoctoral positions in computational genomics
are available in the Barreiro Lab. Our lab is currently
located at the University of Montreal but in June 2018
we will be moving to the Section of Genetic Medicine
at the University of Chicago.
Our group studies the genetic basis of variation in the
human immune response, as well as the evolution of
dierences in the immune response between humans
and other primates. ?The exact projects for prospective
postdocs are exible and applicants are encouraged to
propose their own projects, as long as they t withinthe lab's general interests.? Current work includes (i)
characterization of population dierences in the immune
response in humans, (ii) testing the functional impact of
variation in social status on vaccine responses in rhesus
macaques (close collaboration with Dr. Jenny Tung at
Duke University), (iii) comparative studies of innate
immune responses in mammals, and (iv) the role of
epigenetic changes in the regulation of innate immune
responses. More details on some of our ongoing projects
and past work can be found on our website: http://luis-
barreirolab.org/ Postdoctoral applicants should have
demonstrated experience with genomic data analysis.
Strong programming and bioinformatics skills are essen-
tial. Candidates with experience in gene expression data
analysis, eQTL mapping, epigenetic proling, and/or
co-expression network analysis are strongly encouraged
to apply.
Our lab oers a congenial research environment comple-
mented by the rich academic milieu of the University
of Chicago, particularly in the departments of Genetic
Medicine, Human Genetics, and Ecology and Evolu-
tion. Postdocs in our lab are encouraged to develop
collaborations with other groups and to start develop-
ing an independent research program. To apply for
the position please send an email to Luis Barreiro
(luis.barreiro@umontreal.ca) including a cover letter
and your resume/CV together with contact information
for at least two references. Informal inquiries are also
welcome. Start dates are negotiable.
Luis Barreiro Associate Professor
The University of Chicago is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer
and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, re-
ligion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual with a
disability, protected veteran status, genetic information,
or other protected classes under the law.
*Luis Barreiro, PhD.* *Assistant Professor * *CHU
Sainte-Justine/University of Montreal* *Canadian Re-
search Chair in Functional and Evolutionary * *Ge-
nomics of the Immune System. * 3175, C^ ote Sainte-
Catherine, *Phone# : 514-345-4931 ext. 2544* *e-mail:
luis.barreiro@umontreal.ca
Luis Barreiro <lbbarreiro@gmail.com >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 147
UCologne
EvolutionAntibioticResistance
Postdoc position in modeling the evolution of antibiotic
resistance
We seek a postdoctoral researcher for a collaborative
project between the groups of Prof. Joachim Krug
(Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne) and Prof.
Arjan de Visser (Genetics, Wageningen University) on
predicting evolutionary pathways to beta-lactam resis-
tance. The project combines theory and experiments
and is part of the new Collaborative Research Center
1310 \Predictability in Evolution" funded by Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) and coordinated at the
University of Cologne. The aim of the project is to
identify key predictors of the evolution of beta-lactam
resistance across time scales and levels of organization.
The postdoc will develop mathematical models that link
bacterial resistance and tness to underlying phenotypes
and implement them in a dynamical context to quantify
the predictability of evolutionary trajectories. This will
be done in close collaboration with an experimental
postdoc, who will be appointed within the same project.
Prole: We seek a highly motivated person with a PhD
in statistical physics or quantitative biology. We ex-
pect the successful candidate to have acquired a broad
repertoire of numerical and analytic methods for the
modeling of complex systems; previous experience with
population genetic theory and microbial systems is an
asset but not a requirement. The initial appointment
is for two years with the possibility for extension up to
four years. Salary will be paid according to level E13
of the German public service salary scale (TV-L). The
project can start as soon as we have found a suitable
candidate.
Applications: Submit enquiries and applications (includ-
ing CV, letter of motivation and names and contact
information of two references) before January 15, 2018
to Joachim Krug. The University of Cologne is one of
the leading German institutions in Molecular and Evo-
lutionary Genetics. Wageningen University is a leading
university in the eld of the life sciences. The University
of Cologne is an equal opportunity employer in com-
pliance with the German disability laws. Women and
handicapped persons are therefore strongly encouraged
to apply.
Prof. Joachim Krug Institute for TheoreticalPhysics Z ulpicher Strasse 77 50937 K oln Germany
P: (+)49 221 470 2818 M: krug@thp.uni-koeln.de W:
www.thp.uni-koeln.de/krug/ \arjan.devisser@wur.nl"
<arjan.devisser@wur.nl >
UCopenhagen AntEvolution
{7AUc2qLy4jB3hD7Z Content-Type: text/plain;
charset=iso-8859-1 Content-Disposition: inline
*Postdoctoral Fellowship in Evolution and Eco-
Physiology, Department of Biology, U Copenhagen, Den-
mark*
A two-year postdoctoral fellowship on the evolution and
eco-physiology of fungus-farming ants is available from
June 1, 2018 in the Section for Ecology and Evolution
within the Department of Biology at the University of
Copenhagen in Denmark.
The fellowship will be part of a 5-year research project
nanced by an ERC Starting Grant. Led by Assis-
tant Professor Jonathan Shik ( www.jonathanshik.com),
the project will be based in the thriving research
environment of the Centre for Social Evolution (
http://socialevolution.ku.dk/home/), and will involve
eldwork in the Panamanian tropical rainforests at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (http:/-
/www.stri.si.edu/). The successful applicant will have
experience and interest in ecology, evolution, physiology,
microbial ecology, and molecular techniques.
*Project Overview*
The project will focus on the remarkable lineage of leaf-
cutter ants (genus *Atta*) that harvest fresh vegetation
and use it as compost to produce domesticated fungal
crops in huge underground nests that feed massive super
organismal colonies with millions of workers. We will
explore how leafcutter ants have managed to grow a
single cultivar lineage from Texas to Argentina, thriving
across extreme contemporary rainfall and temperature
gradients and across diverse climates over millions of
years. Projects will combine eld experiments in Pana-
manian rainforests and integrative laboratory studies of
cultivar gene expression to resolve the mechanisms gov-
erning the resilience of industrial-scale fungus farming
in ants within diverse tropical insect communities.
*The deadline for applications* is February 15, 2018
at 11:59 PM CET. For further details and information
about how to apply, visit: http://employment.ku.dk/-
faculty/?show=146492 { Assistant Professor Cen-148 EvolDir January 1, 2018
tre for Social Evolution Department of Biology Uni-
versity of Copenhagen Universitetsparken 15 2100
Copenhagen, Denmark (+45) 31 15 21 40 Email:
jonathan.shik@gmail.com Website: j <http://faculty-
sta.ou.edu/S/Jonathan.Z.Shik-1/Site/Home.html >
onathanshik.com
J Shik <jonathan.shik@gmail.com >
UCopenhagen
IndoPacicBirdPopGenomics
*Population genomics of Indo-Pacic birds, postdoc *
A 2-yearpostdoc (with a possible extension for up to a
year) in Population Genomics is available from 1 April
2018 or as soon as possible thereafter.
Section for Biosystematics at the Natural History Mu-
seum of Denmark
Faculty of Science
University of Copenhagen
The successful candidate will work on population ge-
nomics of Indo-Pacic birds aspart of a larger ongoing
Villum Foundation funded project that aims to eluci-
date the underlying mechanisms of how species form,
disperse, adapt and interact and how this leads to the
species distributions we see today.
Work in the group includes phylogenetics, phylogeogra-
phy and systematics and we have a strong eld compo-
nent (currently we work mostly in Papua New Guinea),
with the aim of collecting additional data (molecular
and ecological) as well as tting satellite transmitters to
monitor annual movement of sedentary bird species.The
candidate is mainly expected to work on the generation
of genomic data and downstream analyses but is also
encouraged to be part of the eld eorts.
The work will be in close collaboration with other group
members as well as with other sta and students at the
Natural History Museum of Denmark (notably withthe
Evogenomics group led by Professor Tom Gilbert) and
the Swedish Museum of Natural History (notably mem-
bers of the Department of Bioinformatics andGenetics).
We seek applicants who have intimate knowledge of and
interest in population genomics and phylogeography ir-
respective of organisms. This research builds on a large
collection of freshtissue material from two elevational
gradients on Indonesian islands (Buru and Seram) and
two elevational gradients in Papua New Guinea andaim to shed light on movement along the gradients and
across the barriers and how populations dierentiate
and adapt over time.
The postdoc's duties will include research as well as
teaching. The post may also include performance of
other duties.
*Qualications: *
- A strong background in population genomics
- Excellent analytical skills within population genomics
- Excellent written and verbal communication skills
- Ability to eectively work independently and in multi-
disciplinary teams
Furtherinformation on the Department is linked
at *http://www.science.ku.dk/english/about-the-
faculty/organisation/Inquiries about the position
can be made to Associate ProfessorKnud Jnsson,
Section forBiosystematics, Natural History Museum of
Denmark, Universitetsparken 15, DK-2100 Copenhagen
, Denmark,Email: *kajonsson@snm.ku.dk
The position is open from 1 April2018 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
The University wishes our sta to reect the diversity of
society and thus welcomes applications from all qualied
candidates regardless of personal background.
*Termsof employment *
The position is covered by the Memorandum on Job
Structure for Academic Sta.
Terms of appointment and payment accord to the agree-
ment between the Ministry of Finance and The Dan-
ish Confederation of Professional Associations on Aca-
demics in the State.
The starting salary is currently up to DKK 413.717
including annual supplement (+ pension upto DKK
70.746). Negotiation for salary supplement is possible.
*The application, in English, must be submitted elec-
tronically. *
*Please include *
- Curriculum vita
- Diplomas(Master and PhD degree or equivalent)
- Research plan - description of current and future re-
search plans
- Complete publication list
- Separate prints of 3 particularly relevant papers
*The deadline for applications is 28 January 2018, 23.59
GMT + 1. *January 1, 2018 EvolDir 149
After the expiry of the deadline for applications, the
authorized recruitment manager selects applicants for
assessment on the advice of the Interview Committee.
You can read about the recruitment process at *http:/-
/employment.ku.dk/faculty/recruitment-process Inter-
views will be held in the the rst weeks of March
*Apply https://candidate.hr-manager.net/-
ApplicationInit.aspx?cid=1307&ProjectId=-
146392&DepartmentId=18977&MediaId=-
4642&SkipAdvertisement=true Part of the In-
ternational Alliance of Research Universities (IARU),
and among Europe's top-ranking universities, the
University of Copenhagen promotes research and
teaching of the highest international standard. Rich in
tradition and modern in outlook, the University gives
students and sta the opportunity to cultivate their
talent in an ambitious and informal
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia 2
AgeingLifeHistoryEvolution
Up to two three-year postdoc positions and a technician
position are available in my lab.
Contact me for questions/queries:
A.Maklakov@uea.ac.uk
To apply click here : https://goo.gl/PdnH2J pounds
32,548 to pounds 38,833 per annum Why do we age:
linking evolutionary causes with proximate mechanisms
We are seeking highly motivated and enthusiastic post-
doctoral Senior Research Associates for ERC-funded
project on the evolution of ageing in the Maklakov lab
in the School of Biological Sciences at University of East
Anglia.
Understanding ageing is one of the big unsolved prob-
lems in biology.
Recent progress in the study of ageing has challenged
the current paradigm that ageing results from energy
trade-os between survival and reproduction. In this
project, we will work at the interface of evolutionary bi-
ology and bio-gerontology towards the goal of explainingthe mismatch between this paradigm and the empirical
ndings. We will focus on i) uncovering potentially miss-
ing parts of the classic survival/reproduction trade-o;
and ii) testing an emerging new theory of ageing that
aims to replace the classic view.
You will help setting up the new lab, conduct experimen-
tal work using Caenorhabditis nematodes as the model
organism, help supervising and training new lab mem-
bers and actively participate in the research life of the
lab and the School, such as seminars and journal clubs.
Funding is available for further training and professional
development by attending national and international
conferences and workshops.
Research Environment The successful candidate will be-
come a part of the growing lab that will soon include two
postdocs, a senior laboratory engineer and a research
technician.
The lab is part of the Organisms and the Environment
theme at the School of Biological Sciences at UEA.
There several world-class labs with similar interests
at the theme, including Prof. Tracey Chapman (age-
ing, diet, sexual conict, Drosophila), Prof. Andrew
Bourke (social evolution and ageing in social insects),
Prof. David Richardson (telomere biology, ageing in
birds), Dr. Simone Immler (germline/soma interactions,
zebrash and mathematical modelling).
Furthermore, there are three world-leading research
institutes (John Innes Centre, Earlham Institute and
Quadram Institute) that together with UEA comprise
Norwich Research Park, and provide great opportuni-
ties for collaboration. Finally, PI has strong ties with
Uppsala University in Sweden and there are opportu-
nities for doing projects together with an established
nematode lab there. In our lab, we encourage dynamic
collaborative atmosphere and promote joint projects and
discussion clubs both within and outside the immediate
research group.
The School The School of Biological Sciences benets
from close interactions with other Schools within UEA,
including the Schools of Chemistry and Pharmacy and
the Norwich Medical School. UEA is also part of the
Norwich Research Park that includes the Norfolk and
Norwich University Hospital, the Institute of Food Re-
search and the John Innes Centre.
Please apply here: link to UEA HR advert: https://-
goo.gl/PdnH2J Dr. Alexei A. Maklakov Lecturer and
ERC Fellow School of Biological Sciences University of
East Anglia Norwich Research Park Norwich, NR4 7TJ
UK
Tel: +44 1603 591150150 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Our Lab page: http://alexeimaklakov.com Google
Scholar: http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
8aCng7oAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao Research Gate:
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Alexei Maklakov
Alexei Maklakov <A.Maklakov@uea.ac.uk >
UHalle BeeViralEvolution
1 year 5 month postdoc on viral evolution in bees
A postdoctoral researcher is sought for a project on the
evolutionary ecology of viruses in bees within Robert
Paxton $B!G(Bs lab at the University of Halle, Germany.
The overarching goal of the research is to understand
the role of viral epidemiology and evolutionary change
for pathogen emergence and host switching; the project
is embedded within the DFG $B!G(Bs priority program:
Ecology and Species Barriers in Emerging Viral Diseases
(SPP 1596). Requirements sought: a highly motivated
individual; experience in, or knowledge of, evolution-
ary modelling and bioinformatics; an interest in host-
parasite interactions. Opportunities exist to develop
the research through lab and eld-based experiments
as well as molecular genetic analysis of bees and their
viruses in the lab.
The working language of the lab is English. The neigh-
boring group of Robin Mortiz makes for a strong prole
in bee biology and genetics at the University of Halle.
The position is available for 1 year and 5 months and,
though the start date is exible, we seek a person to
commence research during spring 2018. Halle is a de-
lightful, historical city approximately 1.5 hours SW of
Berlin. The salary is on the standard German postdoc
scale E13, which translates to approximately Euro 51-57
K per annum (dependent on experience).
Further details of the position can be obtained from
Robert Paxton (robert.paxton@zoologie-uni-halle.de),
to whom applications should be sent by 15 February
2018 as a single pdf le to include: cover letter refer-
ring to $B!H(Bposition 5-12596/17-D $B!I(B, cv, list of
publications, a statement of research interests and goals
(maximum 1 page), and contact details of two referees.
Interviews are planned for March 2018, with a start date
in April or as soon as possible thereafter.
Robert Paxton <robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de >UHelsinki Bioinformatics
Research group SpecIAnt (Speciation in ants) at the
University of Helsinki, Finland is looking for outstanding
candidates for a position of:
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER OR BIOINFOR-
MATICIAN IN EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS AND
SPECIATION for a xed term of 2 years starting from
1.3.2018, or as soon as the best applicant is available.
The group SpecIAnt is a new Academy of Finland and
Horizon2020 funded research group at the department
of Biosciences and HiLIFE. Our team investigates the
genomic and epigenetic basis of speciation using wood
ants as a model system. Previously, we have discovered
widespread hybridization between wood ant species in
Southern Finland with unique consequences. Female hy-
brids are favoured by natural selection but male hybrids
are selected against and die during development. Using
large-scale genomic and transcriptomic data we have
mapped candidate genomic regions and genes underlying
reproductive isolation.
Now our aim is to compare genomic regions underly-
ing reproductive isolation over multiple hybridization
events.
The candidate will assemble reference genomes and in-
vestigate the patterns of divergence and population
dierentiation using newly acquired full genome and
re-sequencing data. The project is executed in collabo-
ration with Prof. Roger Butlin (University of Sheeld),
Prof.
Michel Chapuisat (University of Lausanne) and Dr.
Heikki Helantera (University of Helsinki). Collaborators
oer opportunities for knowledge exchange and visits.
The candidate should have a Master's or a Phd degree.
The successful candidate should be self-motivated and re-
sponsible with excellent team working, problem solving,
and analytical skills. Previous experience in analysing
data from high-throughput sequencing and working in
Unix/Linux environment is required. A background in
population genetic data analysis or speciation genetics
is a plus.
For a bioinformatician, without PhD qualications, the
starting salary will be 2200 - 2500 euros/month, depend-
ing on the appointee's qualications and experience. For
a post doc the starting salary will be 3 100 euros/month,
depending on the appointee's qualications and experi-January 1, 2018 EvolDir 151
ence. A four-month trial period will be applied.
To apply, please submit your application by 15.1.2018
using the University of Helsinki electronic re-
cruitment system: https://www.helsinki./en/open-
positions/postdoctoral-researcher-or-bi oinformatician-
in-evolutionary-genomics-and-speciation Upload a sin-
gle pdf-le containing a one-page letter with a personal
statement outlining your research interests and relevant
work experience, your CV (including publication list),
as well as contact information for 2 references.
For additional information, please contact Dr. Jonna
Kulmuni by email: jonna.kulmuni(at)helsinki.. For
further information about the research group see https:/-
/jonnakulmuni.wordpress.com/ References:
Beresford J, Elias M, Pluckrose L, Sundstrom L, Butlin
R, Pamilo P, Kulmuni J. (2017) Widespread hybridiza-
tion within mound-building wood ants in Southern Fin-
land results in cytonuclear mismatches and potential
for sex-specic hybrid breakdown. Molecular Ecology.
15:4013-4026.
Kulmuni J & Pamilo, P. (2014) Introgression in hybrid
ants is favored in females but selected against in males.
Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1323045111.
Kulmuni J, Seifert B & Pamilo, P. (2010) Segregation
distortion causes large-scale dierences between male
and female genomes in hybrid ants. Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA. 107(16): 7371-7376.
\Kulmuni, Jonna K" <jonna.kulmuni@helsinki. >
UMaryland SOM
GenomicsBioinformatics
POSITION: Postdoctoral Fellow
The Dunning Hotopp Lab at The Institute for Genome
Sciences at the University of Maryland School of
Medicine is seeking a Postdoctoral Fellow to make sig-
nicant contributions in genomics. Currently funded
projects in a well support lab focus on understand-
ing DNA integrations in human cancer genomes (NCI-
TR01), bacterial DNA integrations in other animal
genomes (NSF-ABI), and the genomics of larial ne-
matodes (NIAID-U19).
The ideal applicants must have experience in genomics
and/or bioinformatics with a background in microbiol-
ogy, cancer biology, and/or molecular evolution. Appli-
cants should have demonstrated experience in applyinglaboratory and computational experimental approaches
to generate and analyze large datasets. Preference will
be given to applicants who are excellent writers, highly-
motivated, independent yet able to work as part of a
team, and have a strong publication record.
The successful candidate will have a doctoral degree in
Microbiology, Genetics, Evolution, Biology, Computer
Science, or a related  . Experience with statistical anal-
yses and/or programming in Perl, Python, C/C++ and
R is desired, but not required.
The Dunning Hotopp Lab is located in a brand new
building with state of the art sequencing facilities
and a bioinformatics core. It is a demanding yet
very supportive lab environment. In addition to basic
genomics and big data research, the Dunning Hotopp
group creates scicomm videos, develops novel software
for the identication of lateral gene transfers, and does
research as part of multi-institute, interdisciplinary
teams. http://www.igs.umaryland.edu/labs/hotopp/-
projects/ TO APPLY: submit a cover letter,
CV, and contact information for 3 references via
the UMB jobs portal: https://umb.taleo.net/-
careersection/umb faculty+and+post+docs/-
jobdetail.ftl?job=170001UF&lang=en \Bromley,
Robin" <RBromley@som.umaryland.edu >
UMinnesota SoybeanPopGenetics
Position: Postdoctoral Research Associate
Location: University of Minnesota, Department of
Agronomy and Plant Genetics, St. Paul, MN
Research Area: Soybean quantitative genetics and pop-
ulation genomics
Qualications: PhD in quantitative genetics, popula-
tion genetics, evolutionary genetics, plant breeding, or
related eld. Prociency in the statistical program-
ming language R, Perl, Python, or other programming
languages. A demonstrated ability to publish original
research in peer-reviewed journals is preferred.
We are seeking a postdoctoral research associate in the
area of soybean quantitative genetics and population
genomics. The successful candidate will have the oppor-
tunity to conduct studies at the interface between popu-
lation genomics, genomic prediction, and plant breeding.
Possible areas of research include integration of variant
annotation into genomic prediction models; genetic de-
terminants of variation in recombination rate; and the152 EvolDir January 1, 2018
genetic basis of local adaptation and its prediction for
soybean improvement. To address these questions, the
successful candidate will use publicly available data in
combination with internally developed databases and
datasets, and have the opportunity to seek additional
funding to conduct follow-up studies to test hypothe-
ses developed throughout the course the preliminary
analyses.
There are opportunities to improve your biocomput-
ing skills through tutorials hosted by the Minnesota
Supercomputing Institute https://www.msi.umn.edu/-
tutorials and the Biocomputing Discussion Group
https://morrelllab.github.io/compute/. On the St.
Paul campus there are a number of faculty with re-
search programs in quantitative genetics (including Rex
Bernardo, Yang Da, and Ruth Shaw) and evolution-
ary genetics (including Yaniv Brandvain, Emma Gold-
berg, Suzanne McGaugh, David Moeller, and Peter
Tin). In additional to the activities of individual lab
groups, you can participate in reading groups, including
the P.R.O.S.T. evolutionary genetics discussion https:/-
/brandvainlab.wordpress.com/p-r-o-s-t/ organized by
Yaniv Brandvain.
To apply, send a cover letter and curriculum vitae to
Aaron Lorenz (lore0149@umn.edu) and Peter Morrell
(pmorrell@umn.edu). Review of applications will begin
on Dec 15, 2017 and continue until the position is lled.
{ Aaron J. Lorenz Associate Professor Soybean Breeding
and Genetics Department of Agronomy and Plant Ge-
netics University of Minnesota Oce: 307 Hayes Hall
Oce phone: 612-625-6754 Email: lore0149@umn.edu
Mailing address: 411 Borlaug Hall 1991 Upper Buford
Circle St. Paul, MN 55108
Aaron Lorenz <lore0149@umn.edu >
UNewHampshire BeeEcolEvolution
*Wild Bee Behavior and Community Ecology Postdocs
(2 positions)*
The Rehan Lab (www.rehanlab.com) is hiring 2 post-
doctoral research associates to study behavioral and
community ecology of wild bees. The Rehan lab is a
collaborative group of more than 12 researchers, sta,
and students focusing on bee behavior, ecology and
evolution. We are located at the University of New
Hampshire in the Department of Biological Sciences.
The postdoctoral researchers will join a vibrant team ofintegrative biologists passionate about all things bee.
*Behavioral Ecology Postdoc *
This postdoc will examine nutritional ecology of wild
bees to determine pollen preference and nutritional re-
quirements of native pollinators. There is increasing
evidence that bee health is mediated not only by the
quantity, but also quality of food provided during de-
velopment. This researcher will conduct eld and lab
experiments to determine optimal diets for bee nutri-
tion and pollinator health. We are also interested in
the eects of maternally provisioned diet and mother-
ospring interactions on social behavior. We encourage
the postdoc to develop research projects on the social
evolution and behavioral ecology of wild bees.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in a relevant
area, and a strong background in behavioral ecology
and evolution. Analytical and writing skills will need
to be demonstrated with a history of rst authored
publications.
*Community Ecology and Taxonomy Postdoc *
This postdoc will develop taxonomic reference mate-
rial and eld guides for the wild bees of eastern North
America. UNH is home of the Insect Collection of over
700,000 insect specimens and 20,000+ bees. We have
databased this material and are actively working to
develop status assessments of wild bees in the north-
east as well as understanding habitat requirements and
oral hosts using a mix of historic reference data and
ongoing eld surveillance. This researcher will help
manage a eld crew, analyze complex ecological data,
write manuscripts and eld guides, and engage in public
outreach and educate events across New England.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in a relevant
area, and a strong background in community ecology
and bee taxonomy. Analytical and writing skills will
need to be demonstrated and a background in GIS is
highly desirable for this project.
The University of New Hampshire is an Equal Opportu-
nity Employer and encourages applications from women
and underrepresented groups. If interested, please send
a CV, names of three references, and a short statement
of interests to Sandra Rehan sandra.rehan@unh.edu by
December 20, 2017. Postdoctoral Fellowship positions
are available for one year and renewable up to three
years with successful progress and performance.
Sandra Rehan, Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences University of New Hampshire Durham,
NH, USA 03824 (603) 862-5310 www.rehanlab.com
sandra.rehan@gmail.comJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 153
UNorthCarolina
PopulationGenomics
The Schrider Lab (https://www.schriderlab.org/) in the
Department of Genetics at the University of North Car-
olina at Chapel Hill is hiring a postdoctoral research
associate. The successful candidate will perform com-
putational research addressing problems in population
and evolutionary genomics which may include but are
not limited to the following:
1) The application of machine learning tools to problems
in evolutionary/population genetics 2) Inferring popula-
tions' selective and demographic histories 3) Elucidating
the population genetics of adaptation via simulation 4)
The evolutionary consequences of genomic structural
variation (e.g. duplications, deletions, inversions)
The postdoctoral research associate will have wide lati-
tude in selecting/devising projects in these and related
areas. Most of our research is conducted in humans,
Drosophila melanogaster, and the malaria mosquito
Anopheles gambiae, though candidates wishing to study
another system will still be considered.
This a multidisciplinary position and candidates from
a variety of backgrounds will be considered and receive
training to address decits as needed. A PhD in Evolu-
tion, Genetics, Bioinformatics, Computer Science, or a
related eld must be completed prior to the postdoc's
hire.
Those interested should email Dan Schrider
(drs@unc.edu) and include their CV as an attachment.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is an
equal opportunity and armative action employer. All
qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to age, color, disability, gender,
gender expression, gender identity, genetic information,
race, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or
status as a protected veteran.
Dan Schrider <drs@unc.edu >UOstrava ComputationalBiol
We are looking for a postdoc at the University of
Ostrava, Czech Republic. Our team lead by Pavel
Flegontov focuses on using computational methods,
ancient DNA, and large autosomal datasets for in-
vestigating the history of human populations from
an interdisciplinary perspective. We currently work
mainly on the settlement of the American Arctic (see
our preprint: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/-
2017/10/13/203018) and on Eurasian steppe nomads of
the rst millennium CE. We also investigate the relation-
ship of language families and ethnic groups around the
Bering Strait, ancient populations of Chukotka, Jewish
population history, Indian and negrito ancestry across
Southeast Asia, and explore admixture models for di-
verse Papuan populations. We are collaborating closely
with leading researchers in the eld: David Reich (Har-
vard Medical School, Boston, MA), Johannes Krause
and Stephan Schiels (Max Planck Institute for the
Science of Human History, Jena, Germany).
The postdoc will receive a net salary of 1200 EUR per
month for 3 years. The cost of living is low in Czechia,
and average net salary is below 1000 EUR. Depending
on success of further grant applications, the salary may
be increased in the 2 ^nd and 3 ^rd years.
The applicant should have experience in genetics and/or
computer programming and at least one publication.
To apply, please send an email with a CV attached to
pegontov[at]gmail.com until January 15, 2018. The
selection process will consist of an interview and pos-
sibly a test assignment. Funding for the position is
available since February 1, 2018, but the postdoc may
start working a bit later.
Please see a full list of our publications at the following
link: http://www1.osu.cz/ ~egontov/ Pavel Flegontov,
PhD http://www1.osu.cz/ ~egontov/ Department of
Biology and Ecology, Faculty of Science, University of
Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic
Pavel Flegontov <pegontov@gmail.com >154 EvolDir January 1, 2018
UPennsylvania HumanGenomics
Human Evolutionary/Functional Genomics Postdoc-
toral Positions at the University of Pennsylvania
The Tishko lab at the University of Pennsylvania
is seeking candidates for postdoctoral positions. We
are integrating genomic, transcriptomic, metagenomic,
metabolomic, and epigenomic datasets generated from
a large sample of ethnically diverse Africans. We use
evolutionary, statistical, and population genetics ap-
proaches to understand the genetic architecture of a
number of anthropometric, cardiovascular, metabolic,
and immune related traits for which we have detailed
phenotype data. We are also interested in inferring
the demographic history of African populations, deter-
mining the genetic basis of adaptation during human
evolutionary history, and characterizing the evolution
of gene regulation in humans. We are applying func-
tional genomics approaches to determine the impact of
candidate causal variants on gene regulation and chro-
matin interaction. Candidates will have an opportunity
to develop creative, independent projects. There will
be opportunities to work together with an outstand-
ing team of collaborators with expertise in statistical
and population genetics theory and functional genomics
methodology. The candidate will also have the oppor-
tunity to participate in a large NIH collaborative eort
involving analysis of genome sequence data from over
100,000 participants.
The ideal functional genomics candidate would have
expertise in using cutting edge techniques for charac-
terizing gene regulation and chromatin structure (e.g.
massively parallel reporter assays, chromosome confor-
mation capture, DNA acetylation and methylation anal-
yses). The ideal computational candidates will have
skills in computer programming (PERL/Python/C++)
and using statistical environments (R/MATLAB) as well
as expertise in population genetics theory and/or quanti-
tative analyses of complex traits. Experience with large
genome-scale datasets is a plus. Candidates working
with non-human or model organisms who want to obtain
experience working with human data are encouraged to
apply. Salaries are commensurate with qualications
and experience.
The Department of Genetics is centrally located at the
School of Medicine within the UPenn campus and is
within short walking distance to the Children's Hospitalof Pennsylvania as well as the Departments of Biology,
Computer Science, Bioengineering and Anthropology
located on the main campus. Outstanding core facilities
are available for high throughput sequencing, genotyp-
ing, and gene expression studies and for bioinformatics
and computational biology analyses. UPenn has an
interactive community of researchers with interests in
evolutionary biology and genomics, the genetics of com-
plex traits, and translational medicine. Philadelphia is
a vibrant city with excellent cultural events and plenty
of parks and hiking/biking trails. It is also centrally
located between New York City and Washington DC,
with easy access via a short train or bus ride.
Candidates should send curriculum vitae, a statement
of interest, and contact information for three refer-
ences via e-mail to Dr. Sarah Tishko, Departments
of Genetics and Biology, University of Pennsylvania,
tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu. The starting dates
of positions are exible.
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D. David and Lyn Silfen Uni-
versity Professor Departments of Genetics and
Biology University of Pennsylvania Tel: 215-
746-2670 tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu http://-
www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/ \Tishko, Sarah"
<tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu >
UPittsburgh
MicrobiomeOrganization
POSTDOC: Spatial organization of the microbiome
(University of Pittsburgh)
The Wright Lab (http://wrightlabscience.com) is seek-
ing an enthusiastic postdoctoral associate to lead a
multi-disciplinary project aimed at understanding the
spatial structuring of microorganisms within the micro-
biome. The successful candidate will develop and apply
methods for dissecting the 3D organization of environ-
mental and clinical microbiome samples. The project
will involve combining multiple technologies, including
robotics and high-throughput sequencing, to map micro-
bial consortia at the sub-millimeter scale. This research
provides the opportunity to test theories about how
spatial structuring shapes the ecology and evolution of
microbial communities.
The Wright Lab is a rapidly growing experimental evo-
lution and comparative genomics hybrid wet/dry lab at
the University of Pittsburgh. We are aliated with theJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 155
Department of Biomedical Informatics, and collaborate
closely with other experimental evolution and microbiol-
ogy labs on campus. Our lab oers opportunities to gain
experience giving presentations, lecturing, mentoring
students, & writing proposals and papers. We are part
of a broader eort to make the University of Pittsburgh
a leader in applying evolution to the improvement of
medicine. The university consistently ranks in the top
10 nationally for biomedical research funding. Pitts-
burgh, PA is often voted the most livable city in the US
featuring eclectic neighborhoods, diverse culinary and
entertainment opportunities, as well as easy access to
natural areas (http://www.coolpgh.pitt.edu/).
QUALIFICATIONS: Qualications for this position in-
clude a PhD in microbiology, ecology, evolutionary bi-
ology, or a related eld. Ideal candidates would have
experience in metagenomics or amplicon sequencing, be
excited to learn new bioinformatics skills, and be willing
to engineer new experimental devices. The candidate
should 1) be uent in written and spoken English, 2) be
able to work independently and as a member of a team,
3) be hard-working, motivated, and eager to learn, & 4)
have an interest in the microbiome.
TO APPLY: Please email applications (including cover
letter, curriculum vitae, & names and email addresses
for 3 professional references) to Dr. Erik Wright
(eswright@pitt.edu). The position is available start-
ing as early as February 2018 for 1 year, renewable up
to 3 years contingent upon satisfactory performance.
Salary is commensurate with experience and includes a
comprehensive benets package. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position
is lled.
Erik Wright Assistant Professor Department of
Biomedical Informatics University of Pittsburgh Pitts-
burgh, PA (412) 383-4458 http://www.dbmi.pitt.edu/-
person/erik-s-wright-phd-ms \Wright, Erik Scott"
<ESWRIGHT@pitt.edu >
USheeld Speciation
Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of Sheeld
2 years in the rst instance, closing date 17 January
2018
You will work with Professor Roger Butlin to advance
an ERC-funded project on the genetic basis of adapta-
tion and speciation in the coastal gastropod, Littorinasaxatilis. The project is focused on the evolution of
reproductive barriers, starting with divergent adapta-
tion in the face of gene ow and progressing towards
completion of speciation. We focus on analysis of con-
trasting contact zones in Sweden and Spain, which we
are analysing with intensive phenomics and genomics
approaches. You will be expected to have a strong
commitment to research in evolutionary genetics and a
special interest in processes of speciation. Analysis of
large sequencing data sets will be a key component of
the role but you will also participate in sampling and
experimental work as part of a large collaborative team.
You will have a PhD or equivalent experience in evo-
lutionary genetics and experience of research in evolu-
tionary genetics. You will have experience of analysing
high-throughput sequence data sets and experience of
constructing bioinformatics pipelines.
For informal enquiries, contact Roger on
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
To apply, go to www.shef.ac.uk/jobs using reference
UOS018001
{ Roger K Butlin
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Guest Professor Ani-
mal and Plant Sciences Centre for Marine Evolutionary
Biology The University of Sheeld Department of Ma-
rine Sciences Western Bank University of Gothenburg
Sheeld S10 2TN Gothenburg UK Sweden
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
+44(0)114 2220097
\r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk" <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >
UTexasAustin EvolutionaryCompu-
tationalGenomics
Postdoctoral positions in evolutionary genomics, UT
Austin
The research groups of Nancy Moran and Howard
Ochman (Department of Integrative Biology, UT Austin)
are seeking two postdoctoral research associates with
experience in evolutionary biology, bioinformatics and
genomics. Possible projects include the genomics of
host-symbiont interactions in insect systems, genomics
of bacterial populations, evolution and metagenomics
of microbiomes. We are especially interested in candi-
dates with expertise in bioinformatics and programming,
and experience working with large genomic datasets.156 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Projects may be strictly computational or may include
experimental lab work. Successful applicants would play
a role in dening their own projects within this span of
topics.
The Moran and Ochman research groups interact
closely and address questions in evolutionary biology,
genomics including functional genomics, insect biol-
ogy and microbiology. More information is available
at http://web.biosci.utexas.edu/moran/ and http://-
web.biosci.utexas.edu/ochman/ . UT Austin oers a
very stimulating research environment and outstanding
facilities and infrastructure. Austin is a progressive, vi-
brant city with many options for recreation and cultural
activities.
Start date is exible, within calendar year 2018. Salary
would be $47000- $50000 per year depending on expe-
rience, and full benets package is included. Initial
appointments would be for 1 year, with potential to
extend to 2 or 3 years.
If interested, please send a resume and brief statement
of research interests and career goals to Kim Hammond:
kim.hammond@utexas.edu. Please include names and
contact information for three references familiar with
your scientic work. We will begin reviewing applica-
tions on January 20 2018.
\Moran, Nancy A" <nancy.moran@austin.utexas.edu >
UUppsala WolfGenomics
Postdoc in population genomics of wolves We are look-
ing for a competitive post-doc to join Hans Ellegren's
lab group of about 10 post-docs, PhD students, and
bioinformaticians working with evolutionary and pop-
ulation genomic approaches to speciation, adaptation,
molecular evolution and conservation genomics (http:/-
/www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-biology/ellegren/). The
announced position is on an exciting project dealing
population genomics and molecular evolutionary anal-
yses of wolves. The position is for two years, with
possibilities for two years extension.
The Scandinavian wolf population is a striking example
of the impact of isolation on genetic diversity and sur-
vival. Wolves were once extinct in Scandinavia, but in
the early 1980s two individuals re-entered the peninsula
and successfully reproduced. Cut o from the larger
Finnish-Russian metapopulation by the Reindeer hus-
bandry area to the North, the population remained verysmall (less than 10 individuals) for a decade. However,
in 1991 a single male immigrant entered the population
and reproduced, resulting in genetic rescue through an
increase in both genetic diversity and population size
(Vil~A et al 2003 Proc R Soc Lond B 270:91-97). To
this day the population remains characterised by pro-
longed periods of isolation with rare immigration events.
Inbreeding is extensive.
We are sequencing the genomes of hundreds of
wolves from both Scandinavia and the Finnish-Russian
metapopulation. This dataset provides an ideal oppor-
tunity to study the genomic consequences of population
isolation and genetic rescue, as well as providing critical
conservation information for the long-term viability of
the population. It also provides unique possibilities to
study the distribution of tness eects in an inbred pop-
ulation and the accumulation of deleterious mutations
in gene sequences. We have recently demonstrated how
inbreeding translates into extensive arrays of runs of
homozygosity in individual wolves, with some having en-
tire chromosome that are identical-by-descent (Kardos
et al 2017 Genomic consequences of intensive inbreeding
in an isolated wolf population. Nature Ecology and
Evolution 2:124-131).
There are several possible lines to pursue depending on
interest and background of the successful candidate/s.
These include assessment of how genomic diversity varies
over time and in relation to inbreeding, identication
of candidate genomic regions for inbreeding depression,
assessment of gene ow between populations, and molec-
ular evolutionary analyses of large-scale sequence data.
A strong background in computational analyses of se-
quence data is required. Strong skills in population
genomic and/or molecular evolutionary analyses are
desirable.
The venue for the position, the Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Centre, is situated in central Uppsala (http://-
www.ieg.uu.se). The working atmosphere is highly in-
ternational with a regular recruitment of PhD students
and post-docs from abroad. The Centre constitutes
an exciting arena for multidisciplinary research in evo-
lutionary biology in a broad sense, housing some 300
scientists and graduate students, and with research pro-
grams in, for example, ecology, genetics, genomics and
developmental biology. It is a most creative and stimu-
lating environment, and oers a rich variety of seminars,
journal clubs, courses and possibilities to interact with
other scholars and students. Local platforms for next-
generation sequencing (http://www.scilifelab.uu.se) and
high-performance computational analyses are very use-
ful. Uppsala University is the oldest university in Scan-
dinavia and the city of Uppsala is a vibrant college townJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 157
with beautiful surroundings conveniently situated 40
minutes by train from Stockholm.
Informal inquiries can be directed to Hans Ellegren
(hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se).
Applications will only be accepted when submitted
through the Uppsala University web portal no later
than Jan 20 2018, using this link: http://www.uu.se/-
en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=185491 Hans
Ellegren <hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se >
UWMilwaukee
PopulationGeneticsPedigrees
The Latch Lab at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
is recruiting a Postdoctoral Fellow in population genet-
ics, to work at the intersection of captive population
management and wildlife conservation. The fellow will
design and conduct computational research focused on
pedigree-based management. The fellow will have con-
siderable exibility in the selection of specic projects,
and successful candidates are encouraged to be creative
in developing their own projects that utilize simulations
or modeling approaches related to resolving incomplete
pedigrees and utilizing pedigrees in wildlife conservation
and management. The work will have important impli-
cations for the conservation and management of wildlife
both in situ and ex situ, and I anticipate that the fellow
could make meaningful contributions to either or both
of these elds.
A PhD in molecular ecology, population genetics, com-
putational biology or related discipline is required. Ap-
plicants should have a strong publication record, demon-
strable experience in molecular data analysis and com-
puter modeling (C++ or C# preferred), and competency
with at least one scripting language (e.g., Perl, Python,
R). The position is funded for up to three years, has a
salary of $47,476, and may begin as early as February
2018.
To apply, please submit a brief cover letter, a one-page
description of your research experience/interests, and a
CV with the names and contact information for three
references to Emily Latch (latch@uwm.edu). Please see
https://people.uwm.edu/latch/ to learn more about our
group and send any questions or informal inquiries re-
garding the position to latch@uwm.edu. UW-Milwaukee
is an equal opportunity/equal access/armative action
employer fully committed to achieving a diverse work-force. Applicants from groups traditionally underrepre-
sented in science are especially encouraged to apply.
Emily Latch <latch@uwm.edu >
Emily K. Latch Associate Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee 3209 N.
Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53211
Email: latch@uwm.edu Tel: 414-229-4245 Web:
http://www.uwm.edu/ ~latch Emily K Latch
<latch@uwm.edu >
UZurich Bioinformatician
EvolutionaryGenomics
Open Position: Bioinformatician in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics (80-100%)
A postdoctoral fellowship in evolutionary bioinformat-
ics is available in Andreas Wagner's Laboratory at the
University of Zurich, which is a member of the Swiss In-
stitute of Bioinformatics (SIB). The lab is collaborating
with multiple research groups as part of the University
Research Priority Program (URPP) \Evolution in Ac-
tion: From Genomes to Ecosystems". The candidate
of choice would contribute to a range of collaborative
projects on the evolutionary genomics of animals, plants,
and microbes, whose common thread is the analysis of
high-throughput sequencing or functional genomic data.
Lab members are a group with very diverse backgrounds
and research projects, unied by their interests in evo-
lution and life's fundamental organizational principles.
Requirements: We are looking for an individual with
a PhD, who is highly self-motivated and independent,
yet willing to support the computational research of
his collaborators in a team-eort. Strong data analysis
experience using R/Bioconductor and uency in a ma-
jor scripting language such as Python/perl is required,
and experience in software development is a plus. The
successful candidate will have experience with compu-
tational analyses of high-throughput sequencing data
in genomics or population genomics. Only applications
with a demonstrated interest and research history in
evolutionary biology can be considered further. The
working language in the laboratory is English. German
skills, although helpful, are not essential.
Oers: We oer a friendly, international, dynamic and
team-oriented scientic environment at the UZH. Zurich
is an attractive city in beautiful surroundings, with a
multinational population, and many educational and158 EvolDir January 1, 2018
recreational opportunities. The position oers a highly
competitive salary and is funded until December 31,
2020 (with possibility of extension). Part-time work is
possible.
Contact: For informal enquiries please contact Stefan
Wyder: stefan.wyder@evolution.uzh.ch, +41 44 634 82
44
Application: Please send a single (!) PDF
le merged from the following parts to coordina-
tion@evolution.uzh.ch: CV including publication list,
a statement of research interests not exceeding three
pages, and three academic references. The application
deadline is Jan 21, 2018. Starting date is March 2018
or upon agreement.
University of Zurich, URPP Evolution in Action
Mira Portmann Coordination Oce URPP Evolution in
Action University of Zurich c/o Department of Plant and
Microbial Biology Zollikerstrasse 107 CH-8008 Zurich
Tel.: +41 44 634 82 19 mira.portmann@uzh.ch
\mira.portmann@evolution.uzh.ch"
<mira.portmann@evolution.uzh.ch >
Wageningen AntibioticEvolution
Postdoc position in experimental evolution of antibiotic
resistance
We seek a postdoc for a collaborative project between
the groups of Prof. Arjan de Visser (Genetics, Wagenin-
gen University) and Prof. Joachim Krug (Theoretical
Physics, University of Cologne) on predicting evolution-
ary pathways to beta-lactam resistance. The project
combines theory and experiments and is part of the new
Collaborative Research Center 1310 \Predictability in
Evolution" funded by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG) and coordinated at the University of Cologne.
The aim of the project is to identify key predictors of the
evolution of beta-lactam resistance across time scales
and levels of organization. The postdoc will perform
experiments with E. coli and TEM-1 beta-lactamase to
develop and test predictions of the probability of xation
of new resistance-enhancing mutations and their inter-
actions, and quantify eects from various constraints
on the repeatability of evolution. This will be done in
close collaboration with a theoretical postdoc, who will
be appo inted within the same project.
Prole: We seek a highly motivated person with a PhDin molecular evolutionary biology, microbial genetics
or enzyme engineering. Experience with microbiologi-
cal and molecular genetic protocols, including genome
analysis, are absolute requirements; experience with evo-
lutionary theory and quantitative models are an asset.
Experimental work will be carried out at Wageningen
University and at the University of Cologne. The initial
appointment is for two years with the possibility for ex-
tension up to four years. Salary will be paid according
to level E13 of the German public service salary scale
(TV-L). The project can start as soon as we have found
a suitable candidate.
Applications: Submit enquiries and applications (includ-
ing CV, letter of motivation and names and contact
information of two references) before 15 January 2018
to Arjan de Visser or Joachim Krug. The University
of Cologne is one of the leading German institutions
in Molecular and Evolutionary Genetics. Wageningen
University is a leading university in the eld of the life
sciences. The University of Cologne is an equal opportu-
nity employer in compliance with the German disability
laws. Women and handicapped persons are therefore
strongly encouraged to apply.
Prof. Arjan de Visser Laboratory of Genetics Wa-
geningen University, Radix building Droevendaalses-
teeg 1 6708 PB Wageningen The Netherlands P: (+)31
317 483144 M: arjan.devisser@wur.nl W: https://-
arjandevisserlab.wordpress.com Prof. Joachim Krug
Institute for Theoretical Physics Z ulpicher Strasse
77 50937 K oln Germany P: (+)49 221 470 2818 M:
krug@thp.uni-koeln.de W: www.thp.uni-koeln.de/krug/
\arjan.devisser@wur.nl" <arjan.devisser@wur.nl >January 1, 2018 EvolDir 159
Wissenschaftskolleg Berlin
Fellowship
GAIN TIME TO THINK! 2018/19 COLLEGE FOR
LIFE SCIENCES FELLOWSHIPS DEADLINE: |
JANUARY 7, 2018 Call for Applications https://cs-
application.wiko-berlin.de/
The College for Life Sciences, a junior program of the
Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (Institute for Advanced
Study), oers young life-sciences scholars from around
the world an opportunity to take a break from the lab
and gain time to work and develop their own projects
and immerse themselves in an intellectually and cultur-
ally diverse environment.
Each year the Wissenschaftskolleg welcomes interna-
tionally recognized senior as well as promising junior
scholars in all elds of knowledge, including the human-
ities, the social sciences and the arts and we invite you
to become part of this \learning community". Our goal
is to promote a kind of science that transcends disci-
plinary boundaries and goes beyond established issues
and approaches.
Through the College for Life Sciences we promote sci-
entists at the beginning of their career, i.e. postdocs,
junior group leaders, lecturers, assistant, associate and
junior professors.
The fellowships are intended for residencies of 3-6
months during the academic year 2018/19, i.e. Septem-
ber 2018 June 2019.
BENEFITS OF THE FELLOWSHIP * Three to six
months' residency at the Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin
* A full stipend based on your previous salary * Stu-
dio accommodation on campus * Freedom to pursuea project of your choice * Insight into new areas of
knowledge and research cultures * Integration into a
unique international community of Fellows * Access to
Berlin's excellent scholarly and scientic community *
Access to the Wissenschaftskolleg's outstanding library
and IT services We do not oer any lab space. For
more details please visit: www.wiko-berlin.de/cs AP-
PLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS Please apply by
January 7, 2018 with a project outline (about 1000
words), a letter stating your motivation for wishing to
obtain a fellowship (about 500 words), your complete
curriculum vitae, and a list of your publications here:
https://cs-application.wiko-berlin.de/ You are com-
pletely free to choose the project that you will pursue
at the Wissenschaftskolleg; we impose no thematic pre-
settings whatsoever.
You must have obtained your doctorate by the start
of your fellowship, and we also require that you have
at least one lead-author publication in a peer-reviewed
journal. There are no restrictions regarding your disci-
pline of origin in the life sciences, nationality, or age etc.
Applications from scientists working at institutions in
Berlin cannot be taken into consideration. If you have
been a principal investigator for longer than ve years,
though, you are advised to apply for a regular fellowship
at the Wissenschaftskolleg.
Dr. Ulrike Pannasch Wissenschaftliche Koordina-
torin Academic Coordinator College for Life Sciences
ulrike.pannasch@wiko-berlin.de
WISSENSCHAFTSKOLLEG ZU BERLIN INSTITUTE
FOR ADVANCED STUDY Wallotstrasse 19 14193
Berlin Tel.: +49 30 89 00 1 - 255 Fax: +49 30 89
00 1 - 100 www.wiko-berlin.de/cs
Dr. Ulrike Pannasch Wissenschaftliche Koordina-
torin/Academic Coordinator College for Life Sciences
Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin / Institute for Advanced
Study Wallotstr. 19, 14193 Berlin Tel. +49 - 30 - 89 001
- 255http://www.wiko-berlin.de/institution/college-for-
life-sciences/ Ulrike Pannasch <paul@wiko-berlin.de >160 EvolDir January 1, 2018
WorkshopsCourses
Berlin GenomeAssemblyAndAnnotation Feb12-16 Last-
Call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .160
Berlin MetabarcodingMicrobialCommunities Apr16-20
161
Berlin MolecularPhylogeniesInBiodiversity Apr9-13 162
Berlin Paleogenomics May7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 163
Edinburgh PrecisionMedicineBioinformatics Jul16-20
164
Greifswald MathematicsInEvolution Sep16-Sep22 .165
HaGoshrim Israel SocialInsectEvolution Jul15-20 . 166
MountainLakeBiologicalStation SummerField May21-Aug3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Online LandscapeGenetics Jan17-May9 . . . . . . . . . . .167
Panama Taxonomy when . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .167
Portugal EvolutionaryBiol Feb5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168
Poznan RNAseqAnalysis Feb8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .169
Sweden InterplayParentalCareSexualSelection Feb26-
Mar03 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics Jan29-31 . . . . .171
WhiteSea EvolutionMarineInvertebrates Jul25-Aug19
172
Berlin
GenomeAssemblyAndAnnotation
Feb12-16 LastCall
Dear all, we have the last 5 spots left for
the course \Assembly and Annotation of genomes"
[ https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course20/ ]
12-16 February 2018, Berlin (Germany)
Application deadline is: January 12th, 2018.
Instructor:
Dr. Thomas D. Otto (University of Glasgow, UK; [
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t28/) ]
Assistant instructors: Dr. Marcela Uliano da Silva (Be-
gendiv, Germany; [ http://bit.ly/2o3ImRb ])
Mr. Maximilian Driller (Begendiv, Germany; [ http://-
bit.ly/2zcwmQT ])
Overview This course will introduce biologists and bioin-
formaticians to the concepts of de novo assembly and an-
notation. Dierent technologies, from Illumina, PacBio,
Oxford Nanopoor and maybe 10X will be used mixed
with dierent approaches like correction, HiC scaolding
to generate good draft assemblies. Particular attention
will be given to the quality control of the assemblies
and to the understanding how errors occur. Further,
annotation tools using RNA-Seq data will be introduced.
An outlook of potential analysis is given. In the end of
the course the students should be able to understand
what is needed to generate a good annotated genome.
Targeted Audience & Assumed Background The courseis aimed at researchers interested in learning more about
genome assembly and annotation. It will include in-
formation useful for both the beginner and the more
advanced user. We will start by introducing general
concepts and then continue to step-by-step describe all
major components of a genome assembly and annotation
workow, from raw data all the way to a nal assembled
and annotated genome. There will be a mix of lectures
and hands-on practical exercises using command line
Linux. Attendees should have a background in biology.
We will dedicate one session to some basic and advanced
Linux concepts. Attendees should have also some famil-
iarity with genomic data such as that arising from NGS
sequencers.
Session content
Monday 12th 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \get it
starting" Session 1: Introduction (morning) In this ses-
sion I will kick o with an introduction lecture about
genome assembly and annotation - the past, the present
and the future. I will use this introduction to motivate
the ve-day course. Next, I will explain the use of the
virtual machine (VM), and the use of cloud comput-
ing. This is followed by short introduction to Linux.
Through the morning we will kick o our rst assembly
and put it through an annotation tool (Companion).
Session 2: Visualization (half afternoon) During this
afternoon, we are going to visualize the assembled and
annotation genome from this morning in Artemis. The
aim is to use the viewer to inspect the annotation, cor-
rect annotation and write out les. Next, we are going to
perform a comparative exercise, (comparing the genome
from the morning with a close reference) to understand
the concept of syntheny, breakpoint or errors.
Session 3: Mapping In this module, I will teach the
basics of read mapping. We will map reads with bwaJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 161
mem onto a reference and will examine duplications and
errors through not proper mapped read pairs. This is
important to exanimate the correctness of assemblies
and will be used later the week.
Tuesday 13th 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \learn it
the old way" Session 4: De Brujin graph and PAGIT
This module is dedicated to short read assembly. Al-
though it might be superseded due to long reads, under-
standing the concept of short reads and De Brujin graph
is crucial. After a seminar about this subject, we will
assemble the same genome as before, but this time with
Illumina: de novo assembly with velvet, contig ordering,
error correction. Through comparative genomics we are
going to look at errors in the assembly, and how they
could be found with remapping short reads, and also
split long reads. Last, we are going to compare the
assembly to the assembly from Monday. This session
will go into the afternoon of Tuesday.
Session 5: RNA-Seq In this session, we will analysis the
transcriptome of the sample we assembled so far, moti-
vated through a little talk. In the exercise, we will map
RNA-Seq reads, (short and long reads) understanding
rst the basics of RNA-Seq, but then will use the reads
to correct gene models. We will discuss the concept
of alternative splicing. Finally, we will annotate our
assembly with Augustus, using the mapped RNA-Seq
data and some manually corrected genes.
Wednesday 14th 'V Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \do it
yourself' ^A Session 6: Large genome assembly First we
are going to kick o an assembly of a larger genome, and
let it run in the cloud over the day and the night. It will
be important during the day to check if the assembly is
still running.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin MetabarcodingMicrobialCom-
munities
Apr16-20
Dear all,
registration is now open for the course \Metabarcoding
of microbial communities"16th-20th April 2018, Berlin (Germany)
Instructors:
Dr. Martin Hartmann (Senior Researcher at the Swiss
Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Re-
search WSL, Switzerland)
Dr. Livio Antonielli (Computational biologist and bioin-
formatician at the Health & Environment Department,
Bioresources. AIT -Austrian Institute of Technology,
Austria)
Overview
This course will provide a thorough introduction to the
application of metabarcoding techniques in microbial
ecology. The topics covered by the course range from
bioinformatic processing of next-generation sequencing
data to the most important approaches in multivariate
statistics. Using a combination of theoretical lectures
and hands-on exercises, the participants will learn the
most important computational steps of a metabarcoding
study from the processing of raw sequencing reads down
to the nal statistical evaluations. After completing
the course, the participants should be able to under-
stand the potential and limitations of metabarcoding
techniques as well as to process their own datasets to
answer the questions under investigation.
Format This course is designed for researchers and
students with strong interests in applying novel high-
throughput DNA sequencing technologies to answer
questions in the area of community ecology and biodi-
versity. The course will mainly focus on the analysis
of phylogenetic markers to study bacterial, archaeal
and fungal assemblages in the environment, but the
theoretical concepts and computational procedures can
be equally applied to any taxonomic group or gene of
interest.
Assumed Background
The participants should have some basic background
in biology and understand the central role of DNA for
biodiversity studies. No programming or scripting ex-
pertise is required and some basic introduction to UNIX-
based command line applications will be provided on
the rst day. However, some basic experience with using
command line and/or R is clearly an advantage as not
all the basics can be thoroughly covered in that short
amount of time. All hands-on exercises will be run in
UNIX-environments (Linux, Mac) on remote servers.
Statistical analyses will be run in R using RStudio.
Learning Outcomes
1) Understanding the concept, potential and limitation
of microbial metabarcoding techniques.162 EvolDir January 1, 2018
2) Learning how to process raw sequencing reads to
obtain meaningful information.
3) Obtaining experience on how to statistically evaluate
and visualize your data.
4) Being able to make informed decisions on best prac-
tices for your own data.
Session content
Monday from 09:30 to 17:30
Lecture 1 - Introduction to NGS in microbial ecology
- Key concepts (metabarcoding, metagenomics, single-
cell sequencing) - Sequencing platforms (core concepts,
read length, read numbers, error rates) - In-depth exam-
ple of sequencing on Illumina (over-and under- loading,
sequencing process) - Genetic markers for metabarcod-
ing (markers, primer selection & evaluation) - Experi-
mental design (library preparation, replication, multi-
plexing, covreage, costs) - Understanding data formats
(FASTQ, FASTA, others) - Core concept of computa-
tional pipeline for amplicons - Core concepts of popular
software tools (MOTHUR, QIIME, USEARCH)
Lab 1 - Introduction to compute lab
- Introduction to command line (e.g. basic UNIX com-
mands, batch processing) - Check functionality of com-
putational environment with demo data - Checking basic
characteristics of datasets (number of reads, read length,
read quality)
Tuesday from 09:30 to 17:30
Lecture 2 - Quality control of NGS reads
- Pre-PCR noise (under-sampling, DNA extraction bias,
sample storage, contamination) - PCR-dependent noise
(single nucleotide misincorporations, PCR chimeras,
primer dimers, unspecic amplication, preferential
amplication, template concentrations) - Sequencing-
dependent noise (ltering/trimming poor base calls,
dealing with substitution, insertion/deletion errors, in-
dex cross- talk, amplicon carry-over)
Lecture 3 - Binning into operational taxonomic units
(OTUs)
- Core concept of OTUs and phylotypes - OTU bin-
ning strategies (de-novo vs. reference-based, impact of
alignment strategies, hierarchical clustering algorithms,
seed- based clustering algorithms, model-based cluster-
ing algorithms) - OTUs versus ESVs (exact sequence
variants)
Lab 2 - Sequence quality control and clustering into oper-
ational taxonomic units - Denoising, OTU binning, and
ESV calling (e.g. paired-end merging, sequence ltering,
dereplication, OTU clustering, chimera removal, targetverication) Tools: USEARCH, VSEARCH, DADA2
- Target verication and extraction of hypervariable
regions Tools: Metaxa2, ITSx, V-Xtractor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin
MolecularPhylogeniesInBiodiversity
Apr9-13
Molecular phylogenies in biodiversity
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course28/ Dates
9-13 April 2018
WHERE
Botanisches Museum, K onigin-Luise-Strae 6-8, Berlin
Instructor:
Dr. Diego Fontaneto (CNR, ITA):
https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-
WO97K4QAAAAJ&hl=en OVERVIEW
This course will introduce ecologists interested in biodi-
versity to the use of molecular phylogenies to address
questions that cannot be addressed by using only ecolog-
ical data in their studies. After a short introduction on
how to obtain reliable molecular phylogenies, the focus
of the questions that could be addressed will be on tax-
onomy, community ecology, and comparative methods.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at early-career researchers (PhD
students, early postdocs) in ecology interested in widen-
ing their analytical toolbox. The course is structured in
a way that even an inexperienced and na ve attendee
could take advantage of the possibilities oered by the
inclusion of molecular phylogenies in its analyses. There
will be a mix of lectures and hands-on practical exercises
using freely available software and online resources.
Most of the steps will be performed in R, but no previous
knowledge on this statistical platform is required. All
scripts will be carefully explained to allow all attendeesJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 163
understanding the rationale and usage of the statistical
approaches.
LEARNING OUTCOMES
- Understand how to read, interpret and obtain molecular
phylogenies, with a focus on the concepts and rationale
behind phylogenetic methods
- Learn tools from DNA taxonomy
- Learn how to include phylogenies in the analyses of
community ecology and in comparative analyses
- Hand-on experience on all the steps
- Being comfortable with using R when including molec-
ular phylogenies in ecological analyses
SESSION CONTENT
Monday - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \Molecular phy-
logenies"
Session 1: Introduction (morning)
In this session I will kick o with an introduction lec-
ture about the rationale of including molecular phylo-
genies in ecological studies. I will use this introduction
to motivate the ve-day course. Next, I will explain
some theory on molecular phylogenies and which kind
of data is needed to obtain phylogenetic reconstructions.
Through the morning we will start obtaining our rst
phylogenies to be used in the following days.
Session 2: Molecular phylogenies (afternoon)
During the afternoon, we are going through some of
the available and easy methods to obtain phylogenies
with distance-based, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian
methods. The aim is to understand the use, poten-
tials, and limitations of molecular phylogenies, and to
be comfortable with them.
Tuesday - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \DNA taxon-
omy"
Session 3: Molecular phylogenies continues (morning)
We will nish some of the analyses that we started the
previous day.
Session 4: DNA taxonomy (afternoon)
This module will introduce the rationale of using DNA
sequence data and molecular phylogenies to delimit
species. We will cover in detail DNA barcoding, Auto-
matic Barcode Gap Discovery, K/theta, Poisson Tree
Process, Generalised Mixed Yule-Coalescent model, hap-
lowebs, and then move to more sophisticated multi-locus
methods. The module will be a mix of theory and hands-
on practical exercises for each approach.
Wednesday - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \Phylogeneticcomparative methods"
Session 5: Phylogenetic structure in comparative data
(morning)
We are going to show how statistical analyses comparing
traits between species can provide spurious results if the
confounding factor of phylogenetic non-independence of
the data is not included in the analyses. After going
through the methods that are currently used to look
for a phylogenetic signal in the data, we will move to
statistical approaches that include such phylogenetic
structure in the statistical analyses (e.g. Phylogenetic
Independent Contrasts and Phylogenetic Generalised
Least Squares).
Session 6: Phylogenetic structure of communities (after-
noon)
This module will explore the possibilities that are avail-
able to understand if there is a phylogenetic structure in
community datasets, and which consequences it could
have in the interpretation of the results of analyses in
community ecology.
Thursday - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - \Apply your
knowledge to real world"
Session 7: Group Tasks (morning)
Students will work in groups on a specic question they
choose to analyse. Then, they will explain to all the oth-
ers what analysis they would do, which data is required,
and why. Then, they will perform the analyses.
Session 8: Group Tasks continues (afternoon)
For the rest of the day, groups are going to nish the
analyses, and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin Paleogenomics May7-11
Paleogenomics
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course27/ Dates
7-11 May 2018
WHERE164 EvolDir January 1, 2018
Botanisches Museum, K onigin-Luise-Strae 6-8, Berlin
(Germany)
Instructors:
Dr. Claudio Ottoni (University of Oslo, Norway)
Dr. Dr. Amine Namouchi (University of Oslo, Norway)
Overview
This course will introduce biologists to the main bioin-
formatic tools for the analysis of Next Generation Se-
quencing (NGS) data from ancient samples. Through
a series of theoretical and practical hands-on sessions,
the main goal of this course is to provide a clear under-
standing of the most common bioinformatic methods
adopted in a wide range of paleogenomics projects (from
metagenomic screening of ancient samples, to NGS reads
mapping and phylogenetic tree reconstruction). Par-
ticular attention will be given to quality control, DNA
damage assessment and variants calling. A basic intro-
duction to NGS platforms and the main le formats
used in most common bioinformatics pipelines will be
provided. Each day will consist of a mix of introductory
lectures on the theoretical background of the programs
that will be used, followed by hands-on exercises using
command line tools performed by the participants under
guided supervision.
Target Audience & ASSUMED BACKGROUND
The course is aimed primarily at researchers (MSc and
PhD students, postdoctoral fellows, engineers) inter-
ested in learning the dierent steps from NGS raw data
analysis to phylogenetic tree reconstruction in archaeo-
logical samples. The hands-on sessions are targeted to
beginners and more advanced users alike. The practical
sessions will cover the most common pipelines adopted
in paleogenomics, and can be applied to a wide range
of projects, from metagenomics to genome resequenc-
ing. Attendees should have a background in biology and
some familiarity with genomic data.
STRUCTURE
The course material will be delivered over 5 days, in
10 half-day sessions. These lessons will build o of
one another, and feature a mix of lecture and in-class
exercises.
For more information about the course, please visit
our website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course27/ Here is the full list of our courses
and Workshops: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/ Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR Email: info@physalia-
courses.org
Web: http://www.physalia-courses.org/-http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses Tel: +49 15771084054 https://-
groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses
Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org >
Edinburgh
PrecisionMedicineBioinformatics
Jul16-20
\Precision Medicine Bioinformatics: From raw genome
and transcriptome data to clinical interpretation
(PMBI01)"
https://www.prinformatics.com/course/precision-
medicine-bioinformatics-from-raw-genome-and-
transcriptome-data-to-clinical-interpretation-pmbi01/
Instructors, Dr. Malachi Grith and Dr. Obi Grith
from Washington University.
This course will run from 16th - 20th July 2018 in
Edinburgh
Course Overview: Precision medicine refers to the use of
prevention and treatment strategies that are tailored to
the unique features of each individual and their disease.
Analysis of high throughput genome and transcriptome
data is major component of new large-scale precision
medicine eorts. This analysis involves the identica-
tion of specic genome or transcriptome features that
predispose an individual to disease, predict response to
specic therapy, or inuence diagnosis and prognosis.
During this course (PMBI01), students will perform an
end-to-end precision medicine analysis of real human
genome (WGS and Exome) and transcriptome (RNA-
seq) data. Students will start with raw sequence data
for a hypothetical patient, learn to use the tools needed
to analyze this data on the cloud, and interpret results
in a clinical context. The goal of the analysis will be
to identify personalized therapeutic options for this pa-
tient as well as identifying any prognostic or diagnostic
implications in the data. After completing the course,
students should be in a position to (1) understand raw
sequence data formats, (2) perform bioinformatics anal-
yses on the cloud, (3) run complete analysis pipelines
for alignment, variant calling, annotation, and RNA-seq,
(4) visualize and interpret whole genome, exome and
RNA-seq results, (5) leverage the identication of pas-
senger variants for immunotherapy (e.g. personalized
cancer vaccines) and disease monitoring applications,
and (6) begin to place these results in a clinical context
by use of variant knowledgebases. The data, tools, andJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 165
analysis will be most directly relevant to human cancer
genomics and bioinformatics. However, many of the
skills and concepts covered will be applicable to other
human diseases and even those studying non-human
organisms. All course materials (including copies of
presentations, practical exercises, data les, and exam-
ple scripts prepared by the instructing team) will be
provided electronically to participants.
Intended Audience This workshop is primarily aimed at
researchers and technical workers with a background in
biology who want to learn fundamental bioinformatics
skills for genomics with a particular emphasis on medical
research applications. The course is essentially a crash
course in bioinformatics for next generation sequence
data analysis. It would also be useful for students with
a computational background who seek an introduction
to genomics technology and analysis approaches. In
general, it is suitable for anyone working with genome
or transcriptome data in the context of disease research.
Attendees are encouraged to bring their own data or
project outlines for discussion. Some time during the
course will be dedicated to consultation with a team of
instructors from the McDonnell Genome Institute.
Full course schedule at https://www.prinformatics.com/-
course/precision-medicine-bioinformatics-
from-raw-genome-and-transcriptome-data-to-
clinical-interpretation-pmbi01/ Email oliver-
hooker@prinformatics.com with any questions.
Other up-coming courses include
1. January 29t 'V February 2nd 2018 INTRO-
DUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL
MODELLING (IBHM02) SCENE, Scotland, Dr.
Andrew Parnell http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
introduction-to-bayesian-hierarchical-modelling-using-
r-ibhm02/ 2. January 29th 'V February 2nd 2018
PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
(PHYL02) SCENE, Scotland, Dr. Emmanuel Paradis
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-phylogenetic-analysis-with-r-phyg-phyl02/ 3.
February 19th 'V 23rd 2018 MOVEMENT ECOL-
OGY (MOVE01) Margam Discovery Centre, Wales,
Dr Luca Borger, Dr Ronny Wilson, Dr Jonathan
Potts https://www.prstatistics.com/course/movement-
ecology-move01/ 4. February 19th 'V 23rd 2018
GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R
(GMMR01) Margam Discovery Centre, Wales, Prof.
Dean Adams, Prof. Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Greifswald MathematicsInEvolution
Sep16-Sep22
GreifOlution: Greifswald Summer School for PhD-
students, PostDocs and advanced graduate students
from 16/09/2018 to 22/09/2018 in Greifswald, Germany
As part of the \Year of Mathematical Biology" we
proudly announce GreifOlution, the 1st Greifswald Sum-
mer School on Mathematics of Evolution (kindly funded
by the DAAD, the German Academic Exchange Ser-
vice).
The main focus of this summer school will be on mathe-
matical models and methods for reconstructing phylo-
genetic trees and networks, but upon request we might
also include some sessions on other related topics, e.g.
from population genetics.
So if you are a mathematician or computer scientist with
a strong interest in biology or a biologist who aspires to
a deeper understanding of mathematical or statistical
methods and models, this summer school is what you
need!
Greifswald University is one of the hotspots of mathe-
matical phylogenetics and biomathematics in Germany
- as the only German university which has been oering
a biomathematics study program already for 20 years,
the small town located directly at the Baltic Sea has
attracted lots of renowned researchers over the years!
So why not benet from the presence of all these experts?
Come and spend a week in summer at the beautiful
Baltic Sea and deepen your knowledge on mathematical
phylogenetics!
This summer school aims at bridging the gap between
mathematics and biology and providing both a broad
introduction to various elds of biomathematics (e.g.
biostatistics, bioinformatics and mathematical phyloge-
netics) as well as insights into state-of-the-art research.
We invite applications from PhD students, PostDocs and
advanced graduate students of Mathematics, Computer
Science or Biology (and related areas of study) who
have a great interest in Biomathematics, in particular
in Mathematical Phylogenetics.
The school is free of charge. There are also no costs
for the social dinner, the excursions and lunch during166 EvolDir January 1, 2018
the summer school, but participants must cover their
own accomodation and travel expenses. Foreign par-
ticipants, however, may be eligible for funding (see the
below for the DAAD reglementation concerning foreign
participants).
For more details, please visit https://math-inf.uni-
greifswald.de/institut/ueber-uns/mitarbeitende/-
scher/greifolution/ or contact us at greifolution@uni-
greifswald.de
We would be pleased to welcome you in Greifswald in
September 2018!
Kind regards, Mareike Fischer
Prof. Dr. Mareike Fischer
Biomathematics and Stochastics
Institute for Mathematics & Computer Science Ernst-
Moritz-Arndt University Walther-Rathenau-Str. 47 Of-
ce 3.15 17487 Greifswald GERMANY
+49 (0) 3834 420 46 43
email@mareikescher.de
Mareike Fischer <email@mareikescher.de >
HaGoshrim Israel
SocialInsectEvolution Jul15-20
Save the date!
German-Israeli Minerva School 2018: New Frontiers
in Sociobiology and Sociogenomics July 15-20, 2018
HaGoshrim, Israel
A workshop on the frontiers of social insect research in
the 21st century, especially the application of omics (ge-
nomics, transcriptomics, proteomics) Phylogenomics
and comparative genomics in the study of evolution of
noveltyTranscriptomics and regulatory networks in
the study of SocioEvoDevo and indirect genetic eects
Socio-physiology: hormones and neurons as links
between genes and social behavior Emerging molec-
ular technologies: CRISPR-Cas, epigenetics, miRNAs,
microbiomes
Lectures will be accompanied with hands-on tutorials
on the omics data analysis and a eld trip. The School
is primarily targeted at graduate students and postdocs.
Travel and full board accommodations will be covered by
Minerva for 20 students. German and Israeli students
will be invited to apply in January. More details tocome on the School website: https://sites.google.com/-
view/minerva2018 Organizers: J urgen Gadau, Judith
Korb, Eyal Privman, Guy Bloch Additional speakers to
be announced
Eyal Privman <eprivman@univ.haifa.ac.il >
MountainLakeBiologicalStation
SummerField May21-Aug3
2018 MLBS Summer Programs
Announcing 2018 Summer Programs Field-based courses
are UVA Summer Session classes oered by nationally-
recruited faculty, and oered at the undergraduate and
graduate level. Our NSF REU undergraduate research
internship program is now in its 26th year.
Field Courses
Field Biology of Fishes Summer Session I: May 21-June
15 Field Herpetology Summer Session I: May 28-June
15 Wildlife Disease Ecology Summer Session II: June
18-July 6 Stream Ecology Summer Session III: July
16-August 3
Financial aid is available. MLBS courses are eld-
intensive, research-based experiences. Courses earn 3
UVA Biology credits. Non-college students are welcome
to enroll.
Learn More and Apply <
https://mlbs.us14.list-manage.com/track/-
click?udd2397558126f5ceb0c7824&id^ ac8be2f01&eKa1f3f3e0
>
Research Experiences for Undergraduates (NSF-REU)
Become a National Science Foundation REU. Join under-
graduates from around the country for a unique 10-week
learning and living research experience in the southern
Appalachians. Students conduct independent research
in eld ecology, evolution, behavior, and physiology un-
der the supervision of resident scientists. REUs are
internships that include all station costs, travel, and a
$5,500 stipend.
Program dates: May 28 - August 3 Application deadline:
February 20
Learn More and Apply <
https://mlbs.us14.list-manage.com/track/-
click?udd2397558126f5ceb0c7824&id a4726d03e&eKa1f3f3e0
>January 1, 2018 EvolDir 167
mlbs.org <https://mlbs.us14.list-manage.com/track/-
click?udd2397558126f5ceb0c7824&idH47465450&eKa1f3f3e0
>
Printable copies of our materials are available
here <https://mlbs.us14.list-manage.com/track/-
click?udd2397558126f5ceb0c7824&id339a39b3&eKa1f3f3e0
>.
Copyright ^A ©2017 Mountain Lake Biological Station,
All rights reserved.
Our mailing address is: Mountain Lake Biological
Station University of Virginia PO Box 400327 Char-
lottesville, VA 22904
\Nagy, Eric S. (esn8n)" <esn8n@virginia.edu >
Online LandscapeGenetics
Jan17-May9
Online Landscape Genetics Graduate Student Course
Available Jan 17 'V May 9, 2018, Wed 8:30 'V 10:30
PST (also can be taken at any time using taped lectures)
Cost $500 individuals, $1000 Groups
Course Organizers: Helene Wagner, Melanie Mur-
phy, and Lisette Waits Co-Instructors: Niko Balken-
hol, Je Bowman, Sam Cushman, Marie-Josee Fortin,
Caren Goldberg, Nusha Keyghobadi, Erin Landguth,
Stephanie Manel, Sean Schoville, Kim Selkoe, Steve
Spear, and others
Course description This course on Landscape Genetics
provides a unique opportunity for interdisciplinary train-
ing and provides an overview of the eld of landscape
genetics. The course caters to students in basic and
applied ecology, conservation and population genetics,
landscape ecology, evolutionary biology and conserva-
tion biology. A key objective of landscape genetics is to
study how landscape modication and habitat fragmen-
tation aect organism dispersal and gene ow across
the landscape. Landscape genetics requires highly in-
terdisciplinary specialized skills making intensive use of
technical population genetic skills and spatial analysis
tools (spatial statistics, GIS tools and remote sensing).
Landscape Genetics will be concurrently oered at mul-
tiple universities across the globe, giving students the
opportunity to learn from international experts and
work with peers from outside institutions. For students
who are not members of the participating institutions,
we are oering a web-based online course to reach abroader audience. Each course meeting will start with
a live web-cast lecture (no special software required) by
an expert on the topic that introduces foundations and
methods and highlights points for discussion in local
seminar groups.
After breaking out into local course group discussion
(including a discussion group for online course students),
a web-based discussion across campuses will wrap up
the weekly topic. Students who are unable to make
it to live- cast of lectures can view taped lectures. In
addition, students can choose to participate in an op-
tional lab section using R and/or interdisciplinary group
term projects with web-based collaboration across in-
stitutions. The nal two options are provided to help
students develop analytical skills in Landscape Genetics.
Students who participate in group projects will have the
option of applying to attend a project synthesis meeting
in Coeur d' ^AAlene, Idaho in May 2018.
Course website: https://sites.google.com/site/-
dgs2018landscapegenetics/ How to register? Please
register here by Dec 30th: https://goo.gl/forms/-
iEMKsRSbkp8KN25l1. A link to the registration form
can also be found on the course website.
Faculty who would like to add a local section of the
course at their university can register as a group or
multiple students at one institution can register as a
group to decrease cost/student.
Lisette Waits, PhD Distinguished Professor Department
Head Fish and Wildlife Sciences University of Idaho
Moscow, ID 83844-1136 (208) 885-7823
lwaits@uidaho.edu
Panama Taxonomy when
http://www.stri.si.edu/sites/-
taxonomy training/future courses/2018/-
2018 Taxonomy Biology Nemerteans.html The
course is aimed at graduate students, post-docs,
or professionals who are interested in learning and
applying knowledge about the biology, diversity and
systematics of a fascinating and ecologically important
but understudied phylum of marine invertebrates - the
nemerteans (ribbon worms). The students participating
in this course will:
* Learn how to collect nemerteans associated with shal-
low coral reefs, mangrove fouling communities, and
macroalgae of the Bocas del Toro region * Learn general168 EvolDir January 1, 2018
biological characteristics of the group, major taxonomic
subdivisions, and characters used for species identi-
cation and description * Learn to collect and identify
planktonic larvae of nemerteans * Learn to preserve lar-
val and adult nemerteans for subsequent morphological
and molecular studies
Nemerteans are ubiquitous in marine communities world-
wide; they are common and diverse, with ~1300 de-
scribed species, ranging in length from a few millimeters
to several meters (one species is ocially the longest
animal on Earth). Most are free-living predators, that
attack and subdue their prey using an eversible proboscis
and an impressive array of toxins. Some are parasites
or egg predators of other marine invertebrates, includ-
ing many commercially shed species of crustaceans.
Nemertean larvae are very diverse and are commonly
present in the plankton. Yet these beautiful and fascinat-
ing worms remain largely ignored even by invertebrate
zoologists, in part because of their cryptic habits (many
are nocturnal, and, in general, they are hard to nd
unless you know how to look), presence of numerous
cryptic species (morphologically indistinguishable, but
genetically distinct), and also because of the inherent
diculties associated with preservation and identica-
tion of soft-bodied organisms. The nemertean fauna of
Bocas del Toro, Panama is very poorly known. Some
16 species are reported in the published literature (with
many undescribed species), but recent sampling and
DNA-barcoding suggests that the actual diversity is
at least ve times that number. This likely reects
the amount of undescribed diversity for this phylum
worldwide.
This course will engage students in the real work of
collecting, identifying and describing nemerteans. The
course will last 10 days, with the rst ve days dedi-
cated to collecting and learning about nemertean biol-
ogy and the techniques to identify, preserve and char-
acterize nemertean species (both in their larval and
adult forms). Our time will be divided between eld
trips, lectures and laboratory exercises. Second half
of the course will be dedicated to individual research
projects (e.g. producing formal descriptions of local
undescribed species, studying the embryonic and larval
development, feeding habits or other aspects of biology,
according to student interests). The course will conclude
with student presentations of their research projects.
For more information on nemerteans see: https://-
bocasarts.weebly.com/nemertean-tools.html Applica-
tion: Please e-mail your CV, 1 letter of recommendation,
and a 1-2 page statement explaining your background
and reasons for taking the course, to bocasresearch-
station@gmail.com before January 30th, 2018. Limit
12 students. To be considered for a need-based fel-lowship, applicants should send a description of their
need, their eorts to obtain funding from other available
sources, and a travel budget. For more information
see http://www.stri.si.edu/sites/taxonomy training/
\megansc@uw.edu" <megansc@uw.edu >
Portugal EvolutionaryBiol Feb5-9
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: four advanced courses
with deadlines January 2018 cE3c 'V Centre for Ecology,
Evolution and Environmental Changes is organizing sev-
eral Advanced Courses: see below the two courses with
closer deadlines. Additional informations at: http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat |{
Course Practical Course on Phylogenetics
organized by Octavio Paulo jFebruary 5-9 2018 @ Lis-
bon, Portugal
Objectives: Phylogenetics is one of the scientic areas
of Biology that has grown fast and evolved in method-
ological terms in the last years. Its applications go from
the studies of the evolution of species and populations
to the least expected, as the study of the origin of the
AIDS virus or seasonal cycles of the u. The course is
aimed at students and professionals that intend to get
started in phylogenetic analysis as well as researchers
already with some experience wanting to deepen or up-
date their knowledge in the eld. The course consists of
theoretical classes as well as hands-on practical sessions
using software. Participants are encouraged to bring
their own sequence data for analysis.
Course instructor
Octavio Paulo (octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt)
Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the University
of Lisbon, researcher at the Centre for Ecology,
Evolution and Environmental Changes (http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/octaacutevio-s-paulo),
Coordinator of the Computational Biology & Population
Genomics Group (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
team/COBIG2)
Intended audience: This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 20 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolu-
tion, Genetics or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics.
Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related
area.January 1, 2018 EvolDir 169
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and Biology and Ecol-
ogy of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of
fees for other participants see the programme details
(access link below)
Deadline for applications: January 12 ^th, 2018
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation
letter to Octavio Paulo (octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt)
For additional details about the course and to know how
to register, click here:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat For more
information about the course, please contact:
octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt
|{
Course Biodiversity and Plant Evolution
organized by Helena Cotrim and Manuela Sim-Sim j
February 5-9, 2018 @ Lisbon, Portugal Objectives: On
completion of the course, the students shall have ac-
quired the following knowledge and understanding:
- Describe the main evolutionary acquisitions on groups
of the plant kingdom and its adaptive signicance.
- Comprehend the modern plant phylogeny and its
sources of information.
- Explain the underlying evolutionary mechanisms of
diversity and speciation in the plant kingdom.
- Describe the variety of pollination syndromes, repro-
ductive systems and population structures present in the
plant kingdom, and explain the mechanisms underlying
this diversity.
- Explain and critically analyse how the genetic diver-
sity and evolutionary potential of plant populations
are inuenced by phenomena like phenotypic plasticity,
seed banks, hybridization, polyploidy and postglacial
colonization history.
- Formulate hypotheses and propose methods when
studying evolutionary phenomena in wild plant species.
Course instructors
Helena Cotrim (hmcotrim@fc.ul.pt)
Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the
University of Lisbon, researcher at the Centre for Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Environmental Changes (http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/helenacotrim)
And
Maria Manuela Sim-Sim (msimsim@fc.ul.pt)Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the
University of Lisbon, coordinator of the NHS research
group at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and En-
vironmental Changes (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
member/maria-manuela-pinheiro-sim-sim)
Intended audience: This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 10 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolu-
tion, Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics.
Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related
area.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Poznan RNAseqAnalysis Feb8-11
Course: RNA-seq Data Analysis 8 - 11 February 2018,
Poznan, Poland This is a crush course on a complete,
standard RNA-Seq data analysis.
It includes quality control and ltering, read mapping,
ab initio and de novo transcriptome assembly, estima-
tion of gene expression values, dierential expression
analysis, small RNA identication and even more. We
provide ready-to-use solutions and pipelines so that
each participant should be able to perform similar tasks
himself.
Target: This is an introductory course for anyone whose
aim is to learn how to deal with large-scale RNA-Seq
data and to obtain biologically relevant insights. It is
tailored for those who work in the elds of biotechnology,
molecular biology, bioinformatics, or any other biological
sciences, yet anyone can participate. Prior knowledge of
NGS data analysis is not essential, however it is advised
that the participants know basics of molecular biology,
such as what is splicing, splicing isoform, transcriptome,
gene expression etc. Also, no programming skills are
required.
Expected eects: Upon completion of the workshop, the
participants should know about RNA-Seq data sources,170 EvolDir January 1, 2018
their formats, and be able to perform data quality con-
trol, read mapping to reference sequences, estimate
gene/transcript expression values, and perform dier-
ential expression analysis, including interpretation of
obtained results. The participants will also learn about
transcriptome assembly methods and small RNA analy-
sis and should be able to apply analytical pipelines in
their own projects.
Also, much emphasis will be put on data visualization,
plotting, interpretation, and troubleshooting.
Requirement: No programming skills are required. Also,
prior knowledge of NGS data analysis is not essential,
however it's advised that the participants know basics
of molecular biology, such as what is splicing, splicing
isoform, transcriptome, gene expression etc.
Program overview: PART 1: Linux for bioinformat-
ics (1 day) This module introduces a Linux operating
system, a powerful - yet often discouraging - environ-
ment for bioinformatics applications, such as NGS data
processing. We will learn about commands that help
working on huge datasets, including search and browsing
of NGS-related data. We will learn basics of scripting
and exercise various commands that enable automati-
zation and control of data ow during a bioinformatics
application. After a single day you should feel quite
comfortable using this operating system and be well
prepared for the following bioinformatics applications.
PART 2: Introduction to NGS data analysis (1 day)
This is an introductory course to NGS data processing:
starting with raw sequencing results in a FASTQ for-
mat, through dierent methods for data quality check,
ltering, adapter trimming and read mapping to nally
assemble a transcriptome. In a single day, you will
learn a complete, functional pipeline for NGS applica-
tion. Additionally, NGS-related formats, databases and
knowledge bases will be discussed.
PART 3: A practical guide to RNA-seq data analy-
sis (2 days) Alternative approaches for RNA-Seq data
processing will be discussed and excercised, including
estimation of gene and transcript expression levels, and
dierential expression analysis - all this using two or
three alternative approaches. Ab initio (with mapping
to genome) and de novo (genome-independent) tran-
scriptome assembly will be performed, followed by basic
annotation of the results. Essential diagnostic plots and
quality checks will be done. Also, smallRNA-Seq data
analysis will be introduced, including identication of
microRNAs and short read annotation.
About us: We have been on the market since July 2013
and since then we have organized dozens of bioinfor-
matics workshops with almost one thousand of partici-pants altogether. We have completed a number of NGS
projects for our customers, which included model and
non-model organisms, from bacteria to human. We are
a part of consortium aiming at development of personal-
ized medicine services for diagnosis and therapy of lung
cancer.
We are also conducting academic research in the area of
genomics and transcriptomics, which provides us with
expertise on standard and up-to-date bioinformatics
solutions.
Speakers: - Izabela Maka ~A^A1^ a euro ^Aowska (Pro-
fessor, CEO at ideas4Biology Ltd., Head of the De-
partment of Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology,
Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan) - Micha ~A^A1^ a
euro ^A Szcze ~A^A1^ a euro ^Aoniak (PhD, Deputy CEO
at ideas4biology Ltd., University Adjunct at the De-
partment of Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Bi-
ology, Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan) -
Joanna Ciomborowska-Basheer (PhD, Deputy CEO at
ideas4biology Ltd., University Adjunct at the Depart-
ment of Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology, Adam
Mickiewicz University in Poznan) - Maciej Osowiecki
(BSc, Junior Data Scientist at ideas4biology Ltd.)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Sweden InterplayParentalCareSexu-
alSelection
Feb26-Mar03
WORKSHOP INVITATION
*INTERPLAY BETWEEN PARENTAL CARE AND
SEXUAL SELECTION*
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between 26th February and 3rd March 2018
in Fiskeb ackskil, Sweden.
The main goal of this workshop is to provide a relaxed
atmosphere where researchers interested in dierent as-
pects of the interplay between parental care and sexual
selection will exchange ideas, discuss the recent develop-
ments in the eld, and propose in details future direc-
tions. We embrace diversity as a way to enrich scienticJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 171
discussions and we will prioritize attendees with diverse
backgrounds, at dierent career stages, and that use
dierent organisms and methodological approaches to
address their questions. Besides, the workshop will pro-
vide the perfect forum for researchers (especially young
scientists) to network with other specialists in the eld.
The event will start with a reception on Monday 26th
February, will include 3 full days of talks from invited
speakers and attendees, 1 night of poster exhibition,
and a last full day of general discussion of relevant
sub-themes in the eld, conducted in small groups self-
organized by the participants. We ask participants to
present results or ideas from on-going research instead
of already published papers, given that the main focus
of the workshop is the discussion of fresh perspectives
and initiatives.
Conrmed invited speakers include:
Professor Suzanne H. Alonzo
University of California - Santa Cruz, USA
Dr Lutz Fromhage
University of Jyv askyl a, Finland
Professor Wolfgang Goymann
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Germany
Dr. Irja Ida Ratikainen
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Nor-
way
Professor Nick Royle
University of Exeter, UK
There are no registration fees. Accommodation and
meals for 40 participants will be covered by the nancial
support of the Gothenburg Centre for Advanced Stud-
ies in Science & Technology *(GoCAS)* and the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences (*KVA).* Participants
will only be charged for the costs of their social events
and the transportation to the event venue.
For more details, access: https://-
parentalcaresexualselection.wordpress.com/ *Ap-
plication deadline: Monday, 08th January 2018.*
We look forward to hearing from you.
Best regards,
*Gustavo S. Requena*
*Postdoctoral Fellow*
*Universidade de S ao Paulo*
http://campuspress.yale.edu/gsrequena/ *Charlotta
Kvarnemo**Professor*
*University of Gothenburg*
https://sites.google.com/site/kvarnemolab/home Gus-
tavo Requena <gs.requena@gmail.com >
USheeld UK PopulationGenomics
Jan29-31
POPULATION GENOMICS WORKSHOP
January 29th-31st 2018 University of Sheeld, UK
This course will be held at the NERC Biomolecular
Analysis Facility at the University of Sheeld and intro-
duce participants to a variety of population genomics
analyses for large next generation sequencing (NGS)
datasets. It will include discussion on single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) calling and ltering options, an
introduction to population genomics statistics using the
PopGenome R package, examining genetic structure,
Fst-based analyses such as outlier detection/genomic
islands of divergence, and genome-wide association anal-
ysis (GWAS).
The majority of the course will comprise practical com-
puter sessions, giving participants hands-on experience
in these analyses. We will perform these on the high
performance computing cluster at Sheeld and comput-
ers will be provided. Prior experience with the Linux
environment and basic command line tools would be
advantageous.
There is no charge for the course, and successful ap-
plicants will be provided with accommodation for two
nights and up to 100 towards travel costs to Sheeld.
The application closing deadline is at 5pm on Monday
18th December.
Further details and how to apply can be found at:
https://www.sheeld.ac.uk/nbaf-s/courses/popgen He-
len Hipperson <helenhipperson@gmail.com >172 EvolDir January 1, 2018
WhiteSea
EvolutionMarineInvertebrates
Jul25-Aug19
What: Summer course \Evolutionary and Taxonomic
Diversity of Marine Invertebrates"
Where: St Petersburg and White Sea, Russia
When: 25 July - 19 August 2018
Background
Expertise in biodiversity, a core of biological sciences, is
becoming sparse. The demand for such expertise, how-
ever, is widely recognized, as many elds of biology rely
on sound understanding of biodiversity. Department of
Invertebrate Zoology (St Petersburg State University,
Russia) has been maintaining traditions of zoological
studies and, while adopting the innovations, has also
preserved this expertise in biodiversity. Now we oer to
learn with us.
Objective
The main objective of this course is to demonstrate
evolutionary and taxonomic aspects of marine inverte-brate biodiversity and the impact of ecological factors on
adaptive radiation within dierent phyla. The students
will get familiar with the current phylogeny of Metazoa,
with main phyla of marine invertebrates and traits of
their evolution. The course has a special emphasis on
the invertebrate diversity in major types of marine com-
munities. Lectures provide the general framework, while
extensive eld and lab activities will enable students to
follow the patterns of invertebrate life strategies. This
approach gives experience of implying general zoology
to ecosystem studies.
Target audience
MSc and PhD biology students who, for their current
research projects or future career plans, need to under-
stand marine invertebrate biodiversity from the evolu-
tionary perspecive
Registration
Registration deadline is February 15, 2018. For
the detailed program, learning outcomes, and
registration form, please visit our web page:
http://zoology.bio.spbu.ru/Education/Biodiversity/-
rbiodiv.php Please contact Anna Gonchar if you have
questions: a.gonchar@spbu.ru
Anna Gonchar, Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Faculty of Biology St Petersburg State University zool-
ogy.bio.spbu.ru
Anya Gonchar <anya.gonchar@gmail.com >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will onlyJanuary 1, 2018 EvolDir 173
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.