E v o l D i r
April 1, 2015
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Conferences
Amsterdam PlantGenomeEvolution Sep6-8 . . . . . . . . . 2
Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Bologna ItalianSocEvolutionaryBiol Aug31-Sep3 . . . .3
Cairns Birdsong Aug9-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Cairns MatingConict Mar16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Cambridge EvolutionaryGenomics Mar17 . . . . . . . . . . .4
Crete EvolutionaryBiol Oct7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Dublin Bioinformatics Jul10-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Edinburgh QuantitativeGenetics Mar18 . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Germany IBAC2015 VocalisingFemales Sep7-12 . . . . .7
Guelph Barcoding Aug18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics Jun17-19 Deadline-
Mar9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Krakow Poland EvolutionaryPhysiology Aug23-28 . . 9
Montreal PopulationCohorts Apr16-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
NESCent BiodiversityDisease May4-6 CallApplicants
10
Paris EvolutionaryAdaptation Jul8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Paris MathModelsEcolEvol Jul8-10 Registration . . . 11
Paris MMEE AdaptationInAChangingEnvironment
Jul08-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Paris MMEE LinkageAndTheLimitstoSelection Jul08-10
12
Peru Biodiversity Oct15-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12SaoPaulo Evolution Jun26-30 MinorityAirfare . . . . . 13
SaoPaulo Evolution Jun26-30 MinorityStudentTravel
13
Saskaton CanSocEcoEvol May22-24 EarlyBird . . . . .14
Scotland EMPSEB StudentEvolutionaryBiology Sep8-
12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
StAndrews DrosophilaEvolution May8 . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22 Registration . . . .15
Sydney Hawkesbury BiologyTephritidFlies Apr2 . . . 15
Tours France EukaryoticGenomes Jul8-10 . . . . . . . . . 16
Tubingen PopBio May14-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Turkey EcolEvolutionaryBiol Aug6-7 Registration . 17
UBrno PlantGenetics Sep7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9 Deadlines . . 18
UHudderseld ProtistEvolution Apr15-17 . . . . . . . . . 19
ULisbon ReticulateEvolution Jul17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UMichigan AnnArbor PopGenet Jul25-26 . . . . . . . . . 19
UMichigan ECSS Microbiome Ecol Evol Mar28 . . . .20
UMichigan SocSystematicBiol May20-22 . . . . . . . . . . .21
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 EarlyBird ClosingThisSun-
day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Zurich EvolMed Jul30-Aug1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Amsterdam PlantGenomeEvolution
Sep6-8
*Plant Genome Evolution 2015* A Current Opinion
Conference Amsterdam, The Netherlands 6-8 Septem-
ber 2015
For full conference details visit http://-
www.plantgenomeevolution.com *Submit abstracts by
3 April 2015*It is our pleasure to announce the third Current Opinion
Conference on Plant Genome Evolution, to be held in
Amsterdam, 6-8 September 2015. We are delighted to
be holding this (now biannual) event again after a very
successful rst and second meeting in 2011 and 2013
where renowned plant researchers gave inspiring talks
and where many discussed their latest research in the
eld.
For the 2015 meeting, we are even more ambitious than
the previous years and are trying to put together an
even more exciting programme focused on (new) plant
genomes, natural variation, domestication, epigenetics,April 1, 2015 EvolDir 3
and systems biology, of course all with a strong emphasis
on evolution and evolutionary aspects.
This third meeting will present the unique opportunity
to meet and discuss with colleagues, get updated on
the newest developments and insights in plant genome
evolution, and will provide unique possibilities to net-
work and discuss collaborations. We are delighted to
announce that Prof. Gerald A. Tuskan (Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory and JGI, USA) has agreed to deliver
the plenary lecture on Sunday, opening the meeting.
Topics
- (Novel) Genome projects - Genome and epigenome
evolution - Gene and genome duplication - Genomic
views on hybridization, heterosis, domestication, and
speciation - Genomic variation and population genomics
- Bioinformatics, systems and synthetic biology
Mary McAdam <mary@2market2market.co.uk >
Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9
Registration for the inaugural meeting of the Pan Amer-
ican Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology <
http://www.evodevopanam.org/ >is open! Mark your
calendars for the meeting dates, 5-9 August, 2015. Only
a few spots left!!!
*The registration deadline is April 1, 2015. Click
**here* <http://www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{
events.html >* to register.*
Follow us: @EvoDevoPanAm
Join Us: #EvoDevo15
A few meeting highlights:
- *Conrmed speakers: *Chris Amemiya, Alexa Bely,
Sean Carroll, Rachel Collin, Kim Cooper, Tamara Franz-
Odendaal, Matt Gibson, Angela Hay, Vivian Irish,
Catherine Linnen, Mark Martindale, Jose Xavier Neto,
Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early Career Award Recipient),
Richard Palmer, Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award recipient),
Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
Smith, Ralf Sommer, Mansi Srivastava, James Umen
- Published abstracts
- Posters on display throughout the entire meeting
- Poster prizes for PhD students and postdocs
- Child Care reimbursement available!! Bring the whole
family.All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, child care services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member!! To learn more
about PASEDB, visit the following website: http://-
www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Committee
and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look forward
to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
Chelsea Specht <cdspecht@berkeley.edu >
Bologna ItalianSocEvolutionaryBiol
Aug31-Sep3
The University of Bologna, the Department of Biological
Geological and Environmental Sciences and the Molec-
ular Zoology Lab (MoZoo Lab) invite you at the 6th
Congress of the Italian Society of Evolutionary Biology
that will be held in Bologna (Italy) from August 31 to
September 3, 2015.
You can nd all the informations at the Conference web-
site www.evoluzione2015.net The 6th SIBE congress
wants to specically promote exchanges and discussion
among Italian and non-Italian evolutionary Biologists,
with particular attention to young researchers. Sym-
posia will cover dierent topics, including the most
up-to-date thematic areas of Evolutionary Biology. A
paricular attention will also be given to the dissem-
ination of the nature and social role of evolutionary
biologists to general public.
The Conference is organized into 7 thematic symposia
covering most of the elds of Evolutionary Biology. The
Conference warmly welcomes all professional and non-
professional Evolutionary Biologists, as well as teachers
and science writers. It is also particularly addressed to
young students and scientists and, through an informal
and easy going atmosphere, wants to promote exchanges
and synergies among scientists and/or amateurs.
The Congress venue is conveniently located in the Uni-
versity Area, which is close to the historic part of the
beautiful city of Bologna, the house of the oldest Uni-
veristy in the world.
We hope to see you in all in Bologna
The Organizing Committee of the 6th Congress of the
Italian Society of Evolutionary Biology
Marco Passamonti <marco.passamonti@unibo.it >4 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Cairns Birdsong Aug9-14
REMINDER: ABSTRACT DEADLINE APPROACH-
ING!
As a part of the Behaviour 2015 conference that will be
held in Cairns, Australia, on 9-14 August 2015, we are
pleased to announce a symposium on the topic \Female
song: tness costs and benets".
Symposium summary:
Bird song, traditionally regarded as primarily a male
trait, is in fact widespread among female songbirds and
was likely present in the ancestor of modern songbirds.
These recent ndings challenge the view that sexual
dimorphism in the expression and complexity of song is
largely the outcome of sexual selection on males. It is
now clear that understanding the evolution of bird song
requires explaining variation within and among species
in the expression and complexity of female song. To
do this, we need a better understanding of the nature
of variation in female song in dierent contexts and
systems, as well as the tness costs and benets of vari-
ation in the expression and complexity of female song.
The aim of this symposium is to draw together current
research on female song with the goal of understanding
the tness costs and benets of the diversity of female
singing behaviour apparent among songbirds.
Abstract submissions for oral presentations can be sub-
mitted until 16 March 2015:
http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposium-details/
For more details, please don't hesitate to contact us:
Michelle L Hall - hall.mATunimelb.edu.au
Naomi E Langmore - naomi.langmoreATanu.edu.au
The conference is a major international meeting and
a great opportunity to meet and interact with other
scientists in the eld, as it will be a joint meeting
of the International Ethological Conference (IEC <
http://www.ethologycouncil.org/ >), Australasian So-
ciety for the Study of Animal Behaviour (ASSAB <
http://www.assab.org/ >), Australasian Evolution So-
ciety (AES <http://australasianevolutionsociety.com/
>), and International Society for Applied Ethology:
Australasia, New Zealand and Africa Region.
naomi.langmore@anu.edu.auCairns MatingConict Mar16
For those of you interested in the role of conict in
mating and reproduction, please consider registering
for the \Costs and Conict in Reproduction" sympo-
sium at this year's Behaviour 2015 in Cairns (http:/-
/www.behaviour2015.org/). If you wish to submit an
abstract, follow the instructions under \Symposium
Details" (http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposium-
details/). Please note that abstracts are due by March
16.
id #19662 Costs and Conict in Reproduction Conict
between individuals is ubiquitous in nature, and stems
from costs incurred by one or more players in an interac-
tion when their optima do not align. Self-promotion and
cost avoidance help to shape all manner of behavioural
interactions - including those associated with reproduc-
tion. Conict can manifest among members of the same
sex (e.g., male-male sperm competition, queen/worker
conict), or between the sexes, where the reproductive
optima of females and males dier (sexual conict).
Additionally, when species with poor mate recognition
systems occur sympatrically, interspecies interactions
may also impose signicant costs to one or both players
(reproductive interference). This symposium aims to
focus on dierent facets of antagonism in the context
of reproduction, to gain insights into conict and con-
ict resolution gleaned from dierent perspectives and
across hierarchical levels (i.e., within sexes, between
sexes, between populations, between species).
Thank you,
Nikolai Tatarnic & Leigh Simmons
Nikolai Tatarnic <Nikolai.Tatarnic@museum.wa.gov.au >
Cambridge EvolutionaryGenomics
Mar17
Conference: Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics, 17th
March 2015, Cambridge UK
The meeting will be taking place in Cambridge (UK)
on Tuesday 17th March 2015. The meeting is free toApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 5
attend and no registration is required. The meeting
aims to bring together people working on all aspects of
evolutionary genetics.
We have a fantastic line up of talks including three
invited speakers:
-Josephine Pemberton, University of Edinburgh \Ge-
nomic analysis of body size in a free-living population"
http://pemberton.bio.ed.ac.uk/josephine-pemberton
-Nathan Bailey, University of St Andrews \Ge-
nomic Invasion" http://www.exiblephenotype.org/
-Aoife McLysaght, University of Dublin \Dosage
sensitive genes in evolution and disease" http:/-
/www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol/ Details and full pro-
gramme of talks can be found here: http://-
www.evolutionarygenetics.group.cam.ac.uk/eggs/
eggs.symp@gmail.com
Crete EvolutionaryBiol Oct7-11
Dear colleagues,
It is my pleasure to announce that the registration
and the abstract submission for the 13th International
Congress on the Zoogeography and Ecology of Greece
and Adjacent Regions that will take place in Irak-
leio (Crete, Greece) between the 7th and the 11th
of October, 2015 will open on April 1st. The dead-
line for abstract submission and early registration will
be July 30, 2015. Visit our congress website (http://-
13iczegar.nhmc.uoc.gr/) for the most current informa-
tion. The congress' scope includes all issues related
to systematic, phylogeny, biogeography, ecology, evolu-
tion, and conservation on animal species in the eastern
Mediterranean region. Research concerning all aspects
of animal biodiversity (terrestrial, subterranean, fresh-
water and marine) within a geographical region that
includes the Balkan and Italian peninsulas, Asia Minor
and Anatolia, as well as the Near East and the Mediter-
ranean coasts of north-eastern Africa are welcome. The
ocial language of the 13th ICZEGAR will be English.
Sessions will convene in the mornings and afternoons
and will include lectures by invited speakers, as well as
talks and poster presentations selected from submitted
abstracts.
The invited key speakers are: - Dr Adalgisa Caccone,
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Yale
University, New Haven (CT), USA - Dr Neil Davies,
University of California, Berkeley, USA - Dr Bella S.
Galil, National Institute of Oceanography, Israel - DrKaterina Harvati-Papatheodorou, Eberhard Karls Uni-
versit at T ubingen, Senckenberg Center for Human Evo-
lution and Paleoecology, Pal aoanthropologie, T ubingen,
Germany.
We will appreciate very much if you disseminate this
information among your colleagues and encourage them
to participate. We hope that you or some of your col-
leagues will be interested to attend the Congress. I
look forward to welcoming you in Irakleio (Crete) for a
scientically stimulating and socially enjoyable meeting.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee Dr Nikos
Poulakakis
Communication via e-mail is strongly encouraged
(13iczegar@nhmc.uoc.gr).
Assist. Prof. Nikos Poulakakis Department of Biol-
ogy and Natural History Museum of Crete University
of Crete Knossos Av., P.O.BOX 2208 Irakleio, Crete,
GR-71409 Greece
Phone: +302810393619, +302810393282- Fax:
+302810324366 e-mail: poulakakis@nhmc.uoc.gr http:/-
/molecularsystematicslab.weebly.com/ Poulakakis
Nikos <poulakakis@nhmc.uoc.gr >
Dublin Bioinformatics Jul10-11
Call for Abstracts for the 16th Annual Bioinformat-
ics Open Source Conference (BOSC 2015) A Special
Interest Group (SIG) of ISMB/ECCB 2015
Dates: 10-11 July, 2015 Location: Dublin, Ireland
Web site: http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/BOSC 2015
Email: bosc at open-bio.org BOSC announcements mail-
ing list: http://lists.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/-
bosc-announce Important Dates: March 24, 2015:
Registration opens for ISMB and BOSC (https://-
www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2015-registration) April 3, 2015:
Deadline for submitting BOSC abstracts May 3, 2015:
Notication of accepted talk abstracts emailed to au-
thors July 8-9, 2015: Codefest 2015, Dublin (http:/-
/www.open-bio.org/wiki/Codefest 2015) July 10-11,
2015: BOSC 2015, Dublin (http://www.open-bio.org/-
wiki/BOSC 2015) July 10-14, 2015: ISMB/ECCB 2015,
Dublin
The Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC)
covers the wide range of open source bioinformatics
software being developed, and encompasses the growing6 EvolDir April 1, 2015
movement of Open Science, with its focus on trans-
parency, reproducibility, and data provenance. We wel-
come submissions relating to all aspects of bioinformat-
ics and open science software, including new computa-
tional methods, reusable software components, visualiza-
tion, interoperability, and other approaches that help to
advance research in the biomolecular sciences. We par-
ticularly wish to invite those who have not participated
in previous BOSCs to join us this year!
Two full days of talks, posters, panel discussions, and in-
formal discussion groups will enable BOSC attendees to
interact with other developers and share ideas and code,
as well as learning about some of the latest develop-
ments in the eld of open source bioinformatics. BOSC
is sponsored by the Open Bioinformatics Foundation, a
non-prot, volunteer-run group dedicated to promoting
the practice and philosophy of Open Source software
development and Open Science within the biological
research community.
We invite you to submit one-page abstracts for talks
and posters. As mentioned, any topics relevant to open
source bioinformatics and open science are welcome.
Here are some potential session topics (but please don't
feel limited to these!): Open Science and Reproducible
Research Standards and Interoperability Data Science
Visualization Translational Bioinformatics Bioinformat-
ics Open Source Libraries and Projects
If your company or organization is interested in being
a sponsor for BOSC 2015, please contact us! Sponsors
in 2014 included Google, Eagle Genomics, GigaScience,
and Curoverse{we thank them for their support.
BOSC 2015 Organizing Committee: Nomi Harris and
Peter Cock (co-chairs), Raoul Jean Pierre Bonnal, Brad
Chapman, Robert Davey, Christopher Fields, Sarah
Hird, Karsten Hokamp, Hilmar Lapp, Monica Munoz-
Torres. http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/BOSC 2015
monica.cecilia@gmail.com
Edinburgh QuantitativeGenetics
Mar18
The 8th meeting of the Edinburgh Alliance for Quantita-
tive Trait Genetics (E-ACTG) sponsored by the Genet-
ics Society and BBSRC will take place on Wednesday
March 18th.
The focus will be on Genomic (and other) Prediction.
Details of location, timing and programme below.The meeting is free but please register to attend by
March 10th via Google docs at:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/-
1uS3GL8jeN0g-LOqmmnTETBMozcFXxh-l1BIF
3YBI9QI/edit?usp=sharing
Chris Haley Josephine Pemberton
******
Edinburgh Alliance for Complex Trait Genetics Eighth
meeting - Wednesday March 18th, 2015 Royal College
of Physicians, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ
>From 12.00 Arrival, registration
12.30 Lunch
13.10 Session 1 Chair: David Porteous (MRC IGMM)
13.10 David Porteous (MRC IGMM) Introduction
13.25 Ricardo Pong-Wong (Roslin Institute) The foun-
dations of genomic prediction: Lessons from livestock
13.50 Paul McKeigue (Centre for Public Health Sciences)
Using genetic predictions of biomarkers to investigate
causal pathways
14.15 Enrique Sanchez Molano (Roslin Institute) Ge-
nomic prediction of hip dysplasia in Labrador Retrievers
14.40 Tea
15.10 Session 2 Chair: David Porteous (MRC IGMM)
15.10 Oriol Canela-Xandri (Roslin Institute) From geno-
types to phenotypes with massive numbers of individuals
15.35 Riccardo Marioni (Centre for Cognitive Aging and
Cognitive Epidemiology) Improving phenotypic predic-
tion by combining genetic and epigenetic associations
16.00 Smaragda Tsairidou (Roslin Institute) Imputa-
tion and genomic prediction for bTB resistance in dairy
cattle
16.25 Mairead Bermingham (MRC IGMM) Using live-
stock approaches for genomic prediction in humans
16.35 Isobel Stewart (Roslin Institute) Genomic predic-
tion in colorectal cancer
16.45 Athina Spiliopoulou (MRC IGMM) Future Op-
portunities
17.00 Refreshments and discussion
18.00 Meeting ends
***
Prof. J.M. Pemberton Institute of Evolutionary Biology
University of Edinburgh EH9 3FL
Tel: 0131 650 5505 Fax: 0131 650 6564 Web: http://-
wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/April 1, 2015 EvolDir 7
Josephine Pemberton <j.pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
Germany IBAC2015
VocalisingFemales Sep7-12
Dear Evoldir Members,
Registration is now open for the International Bioacous-
tics Congress for 2015 to be held in Murnau Germany
on 7-12 September 2015 (http://2015.ibac.info/).
Abstract submissions are invited for an oral presenta-
tion in the symposium: 8. \Vocalizing females: Sexual
dimorphism revised". Bird song, traditionally regarded
as primarily a male trait, is in fact widespread among
female songbirds and was likely present in the ancestor
of modern songbirds. If you study female vocalisations
or sexual dimorphism in vocalisations, this symposium
will be a great opportunity to explore the implications
of these ndings and identify new directions for research
while engaging with others working in the eld. Check
out the the rest of the conference program here (http://-
2015.ibac.info/programme). Murnau is a popular scenic
tourist destination in Bavaria, so it is worth booking
accommodation soon. Please submit an abstract be-
fore 31 May 2015 at (http://2015.ibac.info/abstracts-
submission), and also notify me of your interest in partic-
ipating as soon as possible <hall.m@unimelb.edu.au >.
Look forward to seeing you in Murnau!
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow School of BioSciences
University of Melbourne Melbourne, Vic, 3010 Aus-
tralia Email: hall.mATunimelb.edu.au Web: http://-
michellelhall.wordpress.com/ hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
Guelph Barcoding Aug18-21
Dear Colleagues,
It is our pleasure to announce that the 6th International
Barcode of Life Conference will be held at the University
of Guelph, Canada, from August 18-21, 2015.
This biannual conference series showcases the latest sci-
entic achievements and socio-economic implications of
work conducted by the DNA barcode research commu-
nity. The theme of the 6th Conference, Barcodes toBiomes, signals the ongoing expansion of our commu-
nity's research agenda from studies on particular sets
of species in particular places to investigations of entire
biotic assembles at local and global scales.
The conference features internationally renowned ple-
nary speakers on topics ranging from evolution to ecol-
ogy to conservation. The meeting also features diverse
parallel sessions, a poster session, and social events that
are included in registration. Eligible delegates may apply
for a Travel Award as well as Student and Postdoctoral
Prizes.
Plenary Speakers include:
Yves Basset, Louis Bernatchez, Mark Blaxter, David
Castle, Melania Cristescu, Thibaud Decaens, Eduardo
Eizirik, Brock Fenton, Dawn Field, Rosemary Gille-
spie, Charles Godfray, Mehrdad Hajibabaei, Illka Han-
ski, Paul Hebert, David Hik, Michael Hofreiter, Monte
Hummel, Dan Janzen, Peter Kevan, Karl Kjer, Nancy
Knowlton, John Kress, John La Salle, Thomas Love-
joy, Laurence Packer, Rod Page, Naomi Pierce, Stuart
Pimm, David Posada, Sujeevan Ratnasingham, Paul
Snelgrove, Bridget Stutchbury, Derek Tittensor, Jana
Vamosi, Wolfgang Wagele, Tetsukazu Yahara
Registration for the 6th International Barcode of Life
Conference is now open and will continue throughout
the conference. Further details can be found at: http://-
dnabarcodes2015.org/. Abstracts will be accepted until
April 15, 2015.
Please be so kind as to forward this announcement and
the conference poster to others who may nd this con-
ference of interest. We hope to welcome you to Guelph
in August!
Conference poster: http://dnabarcodes2015.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/03/conferenceFlyer.pdf Yours
sincerely,
The Conference Operating Committee,
Sarah Adamowicz Mehrdad Hajibabaei Robert Hanner
Paul Hebert
info@dnabarcodes2015.org8 EvolDir April 1, 2015
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics
Jun17-19 DeadlineMar9
*-* Ninth Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium *-*
June 17, 2015 to June 19, 2015 K-State Alumni Center,
Kansas State University Manhattan, Kansas Symposium
Website: www.ksu.edu/agc ABSTRACT DEADLINES
IN 2015 Monday, March 9 - If you DO wish your ab-
stract to be considered for an oral presentation/General
Session talk. Monday, March 9 - If you DO wish your
abstract to be considered for a poster presentation at
the IGTRCN pre-meeting workshop. Wednesday, May
20 - If you do NOT wish for your poster abstract to be
considered for oral presentation and DO want to present
a poster.
TRAVEL GRANTS AVAILABLE Two separate travel
grants are available to attend the meeting: 1) IGT-RCN
- sponsored by the Insect Genetic Technology Research
Coordination Network.
Deadline: March 9, 2015 2) Eck Institute Travel Grants
for Vector Biologists - sponsored by the Eck Institute
for Global Health.
Deadline: March 30, 2015 Additional information is
available on the Travel Grants page of the symposium
website.
REGISTRATION Please register online at the Sym-
posium website, http://www.k-state.edu/agc! Early
bird deadline for reduced fees is April 10. Deadline for
general registration is June 5.
SPEAKERS Keynote Speaker: David A. O'Brochta,
Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research
& Department of Entomology, University of Maryland
College Park
Featured Speakers: +Michelle Cilia, USDA-ARS, Boyce
Thompson Institute for Plant Research, Cornell Uni-
versity, USA +Martin J. Donnelly, Liverpool School
of Tropical Medicine and the Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, UK +Rosemary G. Gillespie, University of
California, Berkeley, USA +Sijun Liu, Iowa State Uni-
versity, USA +Frank Lyko, German Cancer Research
Center, Heidelberg, Germany +Duane McKenna, Uni-
versity of Memphis, USA +Armin P. Moczek, Indiana
University, USA +Amanda J. Moehring, Western Uni-
versity, Ontario, Canada +Daniel E. Neafsey, Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard University, USA +Greg
Ragland, Kansas State University, USA +Anne-NathalieVolko, INRA (UMR1333), Montpellier 1 University,
France
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scien-
tists interested in genomic studies of Arthropods, both
model organisms and those of agricultural or health
relevance. The program will include platform presenta-
tions, welcome reception, Genome Train Workshop, An-
notation Caf e, and arthropod genomics-related poster
sessions. A few poster abstract submissions will be
selected for platform presentations. Postdoctoral, grad-
uate, and undergraduate students are also encouraged
to attend. Sessions conclude Friday evening, followed
by an optional evening at Konza Prairie Biological Sta-
tion<http://kpbs.konza.k-state.edu/ >with dinner
and live music by the Red State Blues Band <http://-
www.redstatebluesband.com >.
*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-* INSECT GENETIC
TECHNOLOGY workshop June 17, 2015 (Wednesday
morning and afternoon) Robust protocols to manipulate
genes and genomes have not yet been developed for most
insects other than Drosophila melanogaster, and this
shortfall is limiting research progress in many aspects of
arthropod genomics. The NSF-RCN on Insect Genetic
Technologies (IGTRCN: 2014-2019; igtrcn.org) seeks to
remedy this problem by facilitating the communication
of best practice and new techniques among arthropod
genomicists.
This IGTRCN-sponsored workshop will comprise (1)
talks that showcase the latest genetic technologies, (2)
discussion sessions for exchange of ideas and solutions
for eective insect genetic engineering, and (3) posters.
Proposals from the workshop will be integrated into
the IGTRCN program of hands-on practical workshops,
fellowships, and the IGTRCN KnowledgeBase. Early-
career researchers are particularly encouraged to present
their research at this workshop. A limited number of
travel grants to attend the workshop are available for
early stage investigators. For more information on poster
abstract and travel grant submission for the workshop,
go to http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/-
workshop/index.html . ANNOTATION CAF ~A The
i5k Workspace@NAL and the Web Apollo development
team are hosting an Annotation Caf e during poster ses-
sions where both experienced and novice annotators
can ask questions to an expert, share curation advice
with other annotators, or chat with scientists from the
National Agricultural Library and Web Apollo teams
about the annotation services they provide.
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & WORK-
SHOPS
/April 1, 2015 EvolDir 9
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Krakow Poland
EvolutionaryPhysiology Aug23-28
International Congress of Comparative Physiology and
Biochemistry has been organized every four years since
1983. ICCPB 2015 in Krakow, Poland puts emphasis
on the integrated view of organisms \From Molecules
to Macrophysiology".
The meeting will be held in 23-28 August 2015 at
the Jagiellonian University, where Nicolaus Copernicus
started academic education that led him to revolution-
izing ideas about the Universe. The deadline for early
registration is 14 ^th April.
Go to: www.iccpb2015.confer.uj.edu.pl <http://-
www.iccpb2015.confer.uj.edu.pl >
Thirty thematic Symposia, including an Open Session
will cover a wide range of topics:
Molecular and integrative physiology: homeostasis, hor-
mones, genomes, trade-os, telomeres, longevity
Neurophysiology: olfaction, chemical ecology, photore-
ception, enteric nervous system, monoamines
Physiology of biological rhythms: circadian clocks, pho-
toperiodism
Energetics and temperature: avian ight, cardiorespi-
ratory functions, endothermy, performance, metabolic
scaling, body size, cell size, oxygen limitation, pheno-
typic plasticity, seasonality
Stress physiology: cellular stress, oxidative stress, life
history, innate and acquired immunity Miscellaneous:
fatty acids, actin and actin-binding proteins, statistical
analysis of physiological data, biosensors**
Dr. Marcin Czarnoleski
Jagiellonian University Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences Gronostajowa 7, Krakow 30-387 Poland phone:
(+48)126645203 email: marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl
Dr hab. Marcin Czarno AAski
Instytut Nauk o Arodowisku Uniwersytet Jagiello Aski
ul. Gronostajowa 7, Krak ow 30-387 tel: 126645203
email: marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl\Urodzi Aem si A z rodzic ow ubogich, od dziecka poci Ag
czujAc do my Alenia byt penetruj Acego" Stanis Aaw
Lem, Cyberiada
marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl
Montreal PopulationCohorts
Apr16-17
Registrations < http://-
www.symposium.cartagene.qc.ca/ >are now open for
CARTaGENEs <http://symposium.cartagene.qc.ca/
>Workshop and Symposium on Cohorts, Big Data and
Genomics and Medicine.
Population cohorts are created with signicant public
or private investment and, in some countries, are the
primary resource for research and health. Studies with
increasingly larger numbers of individuals reecting the
changing population demographic and environment are
deemed necessary to draw meaningful and actionable
conclusions about the underlying genetic and environ-
mental determinants of phenotypes and chronic diseases.
Issues around genomic, phenotypic and clinical data
acquisition, data storage, and managing access from
population cohorts have been, in part, addressed by
many of the existing large regional and national popu-
lation research programs. Currently, data integration,
interoperability, harmonization and data sharing are
recognized as important goals.
To highlight these programs, the research opportuni-
ties and address challenges, CARTaGENE will host a
symposium dedicated to Population Cohorts, Big Data
and Personalized Genomics. Leaders and representa-
tives of large regional, national and international cohorts
from Europe, the US and Canada will present and dis-
cuss ndings, analyses, and challenges associated with
discovery, data integration, analysis, management and
implementation.
The Symposium will take place at the historic Windsor
Hotel in downtown Montreal, the 16-17 April, 2015.
Speakers include: Sonia Anand, Director, The Al-
liance for Healthy Hearts and Minds, McMaster Uni-
versity Philip Awadalla, Director CARTaGENE and
the Canadian Data Integration Centre, OICR, Mon-
treal Rex Chisholm, Vice-Dean Northwestern Univer-
sity and eMERGE Christine desRosiers, Director of
the Metabolomics Laboratory, The Montreal Heart In-
stitute, University of Montreal Emily Drabant-Conley,10 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Director Business Development 23&Me Alan Evans, Di-
rector Ludmer Institute, McGill University Tom Hudson,
President Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Uni-
versity of Toronto Eimear Kenny, Asst. Professor of
Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mt. Sinai NY Daniel
Levy, Director of the Framingham Heart Study, Boston
University Gil McVean, Director, Big Data Institute,
WTCHG, Oxford University Jonathan Marchini, Profes-
sor Statistical Genomics, WTCHG, Oxford University
Stephen Montgomery, Professor The SardINIA Project,
Stanford University Charles Rotimi, Chief and Director,
Metabolic Cardiovascular and Inammatory Disease
Genomics Branch, Centre for Research on Genomics
of Global Health, NIH Michael Schull, CEO, Institute
for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, University Hospital
Network Toronto John Spinelli, Director BC Cancer
Agency, BC Generations and Canadian Partnership for
Tomorrow Project
This is an excellent opportunity to hear and dis-
cuss novel research from large population programs
and establish collaborations in an interactive and
engaging environment. Please register at http://-
symposium.cartagene.qc.ca \Philip Awadalla, Prof"
<philip.awadalla@mcgill.ca >
NESCent BiodiversityDisease
May4-6 CallApplicants
On May 4-6, 2015, the Triangle Center for Evolutionary
Medicine (TriCEM), the National Evolutionary Syn-
thesis Center (NESCent) and the Duke Tropical Con-
servation Initiative (DTCI) will be hosting a Catalysis
Meeting on \Biodiversity, Conservation and Infectious
Disease."
The goal of the meeting is to understand how conser-
vation and changes in biodiversity impact infectious
disease risk in humans and wildlife. The meeting will
be composed of approximately 10 researchers from Re-
search Triangle universities (Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill,
NC State, and NC Central), with another 25 partici-
pants from outside the Triangle. All travel expenses will
be covered for non-Triangle participants. In building
the participant list, we seek a wide range of interests,
approaches, and experience levels. Thus, we welcome
modeling approaches, eld biologists, and those with
expertise in meta-analysis, and graduate students, post-
docs, and faculty. At the meeting, we will work toward
specic outputs, which will include a special \theme"issue in a high-impact journal that synthesizes diverse
views on this important topic, and development of fu-
ture working groups to investigate specic questions in
greater depth.
For those wishing to participate in the Catalysis Meet-
ing - including scientists from the Research Triangle
Universities - we ask that you ll out a brief applica-
tion at this link: http://goo.gl/forms/LuCWB5Vhgm {
Hillary S Young Noble Hall 2116 Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Marine Biology University of California,
Santa Barbara Santa Barbara, CA Phone: 805-893-
4681 http://www.eemb.ucsb.edu/people/faculty/young
Hillary Young <hillary.young@lifesci.ucsb.edu >
Paris EvolutionaryAdaptation
Jul8-10
Dear all,
I am pleased to announce that the mini sympo-
sium \Trade-os and adaptive syndromes in evolution
<https://mmee2015minisymposium.wordpress.com/-
>", will be held during the - MMEE 2015 - Mathe-
matical Models of Ecology and Evolution <http://-
www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/index.html >Confer-
ence in Paris Jul 8th- 10th 2015. Conference pre-
registration <http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/-
registration.html >Deadline is on May 1st. Payment
and registration deadline is June 1st.
Symposium description: Many models of evolution have
focused on single traits ignoring covariation and co-
evolution of them. The joint evolution of several mor-
phological, behavioural or life-history traits that share
evolutionary history, needs to be investigated to be able
to draw conclusions about syndromes which result from
dierent proximate and ultimate causes. Trade-os and
feedbacks are expected to shape the strength of adap-
tive syndromes and studying them will greatly improve
our understanding of closely related trait changes in
evolution.
Conrmed speakers: Fran cois Massol (Universit e des
Sciences et Technologies de Lille 1'B ~Atiment SN2) Ti-
tle: Joint evolution of dispersal and the allocation of
dispersal cost in heterogeneous landscapes;
Claus R uer (University of Uppsala) Title: Does Or-
ganismal Complexity Favor the Evolution of Diversity?
If you are interested in contributing a poster or
talk to this symposium, please indicate so (selectApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 11
mini-symposium 8. Trade-os and adaptive syn-
dromes) during abstract submission. <http://-
wwwabi.snv.jussieu.fr/achaz/mmee/submission.html >
Bests, Helene Weigang
Helene Weigang PhD Candidate
Biomathematics Group Department of Mathematics and
Statistics University of Helsinki P.O. Box 68 (Gustaf
H allstr omin katu 2b) Kumpula campus, EXACTUM,
room B418 helene.weigang@helsinki.
helene.weigang@helsinki.
Paris MathModelsEcolEvol Jul8-10
Registration
Dear friends,
We are very pleased to announce that registration and
submission are now open for the*MMEE 2015 Paris
Conference*, Mathematical Models in Ecology and Evo-
lution, to be held at Coll ege de France from 8 to 10
July 2015. *http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/*
Registration
*Deadline for preregistration (compulsory):
May 1st http://dr02.azur-colloque.cnrs.fr/pre-
inscription.php?colloque4&lang=en* (please make sure
to select your category in the 'tarication' table)
*Deadline for registration and payment: June 1st.*
The conference fee is 200 euro for full-time faculty. It
includes coee breaks, 3 buet lunches and the Thurs-
day cocktail. Discounted fees (PhD students 100 euro
, ESMTB members 130 euro , postdocs 150 euro ) are
available upon registration before May 15.
Submission
You can now submit the abstract and title of your poster
or talk (20') on the website of the conference *http://-
www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/* You will be able to
indicate if you would like your talk to be considered for
inclusion in one of the 13 minisymposia (each minisym-
posium will welcome 3 contributed talks in addition to
the 2 invited talks). Acceptance of talks will be notied
by email from June 1st.
Please do share this information with interested col-
leagues and relevant emailing lists.
Looking forward to seeing you in Paris,
The organisers,Amaury Lambert (UPMC, Coll ege de France) Guillaume
Achaz (UPMC, Coll ege de France) Minus van Baalen
(CNRS, ENS) Silvia De Monte (CNRS, ENS) Todd
Parsons (UPMC, CNRS, Coll ege de France) Emmanuel
Schertzer (UPMC, Coll ege de France)
PS. You may receive this e-mail because you sub-
scribed to the newsletter of an earlier MMEE con-
ference. If you do not wish to receive further an-
nouncements from MMEE2015, please send an e-
mail to sympa@list01.biologie.ens.fr with \unsubscribe
mmee2015 <your e-mail address >" in the subject line.
PS2. If you are not yet part of the MMEE list,
you can check http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/-
information.html to nd out how to receive regular
information about the conference (no more than approx.
5 emails per year). You can also follow us on twitter
using @MMEE2015Paris.
Amaury Lambert, professeur UPMC http://-
www.proba.jussieu.fr/pageperso/amaury SMILE
group http://www.proba.jussieu.fr/ ~smile Stochastics
& Biology group http://www.proba.jussieu.fr/ ~psb
amaury.lambert@ens.fr
Paris MMEE AdaptationI-
nAChangingEnvironment
Jul08-10
Dear evolDir community,
we would like to draw your attention to the upcoming
conference 'Mathematical Models in Ecology and
Evolution' (MMEE 2015), to be held at Coll ege de
France from 8 to 10 July 2015 (for more details see
http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/) and invite you
to submit an abstract to a mini-symposium on 'Adap-
tation in a changing environment'.Please note that the
deadline for pre-registration (compulsatory) is May 1st
(pre-register here: http://dr02.azur-colloque.cnrs.fr/-
inscriptions.php) and the deadline for registration
and payment is June 1st.Abstracts can be submit-
ted here: http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/-
registrationSymposium description:Adaptation lies at
the heart of Darwinian evolution. Natural populations
are constantly faced with environmental changes that
force them to either adapt or go extinct { a problem
that is aggravated by human-induced global change.
Therefore, increasing our understanding of the adaptive
process is important for both basic and applied research,12 EvolDir April 1, 2015
and both empirical and theoretical studies have made
important progress in the past two decades.Empirically,
it has become clear that evolutionary change can be
fast enough to be directly observable and to aect the
demography of populations and communities. This
has led to a urry of research on \eco-evolutionary
dynamics" and the possibility of \evolutionary rescue"
of endangered species. Other work has focussed on the
genetic basis of the adaptive process. While genomic
approaches often aim at identifying quantitative-trait
loci under selection, other studies have proceeded
to measure key aspects of the genotype-phenotype
map, such as the degree of pleiotropy and epistasis.
Finally, previously elusive concepts such as the adaptive
landscape are becoming increasingly empirically
accessible, and experimental evolution allows the direct
observation of adaptive trajectories. Accommodating
these new data and results requires the development
of theoretical models that go beyond traditional
population- and quantitative-genetic approaches by
focusing on adaptation in high-dimensional phenotype-
and genotype spaces in a specic ecological context.The
aim of this symposium is to present recent theoretical
advances in the study of adaptation in a changing
environment and discuss how these connect and
help to explain the phenomena observed in natural
populations. The invited speakers will present results
about evolutionary rescue in a stochastic environment
and how epistasis and natural selection shape the
mutational architecture of complex traits. Contributed
talks and posters are invited that include (but are
not limited to) studies of adaptation using Fisher's
geometric model and similar approaches, studies of
the nature of genetic variation and the evolution
of the G-matrix, and models of eco-evolutionary
dynamics and evolutionary rescue.Conrmed invited
speakers:Reinhard B urgerUniversity of Vienna (Vi-
enna, Austria)Luis-Miguel ChevinCNRS (Montpellier,
France)Organized by:Sebastian MatuszewskiUniversity
of Vienna (Vienna, Austria) & EPFL (Lausanne,
Switzerland)sebastian.matuszewski@ep.chandMichael
Kopp (Aix Marseille U)Aix-Marseille University
(Marseille, France)
Looking forward to seeing you in Paris!
Sebastian Matuszewski
<sebastian.matuszewski@ep.ch >Paris MMEE
LinkageAndTheLimitstoSelection
Jul08-10
If you are headed to SMBE this summer, then you
might want to make an early stop in Paris on your way
to Vienna. Henrique Teot onio and I are organizing a
symposium on \Linkage and the limits to selection" as
part of the Mathematical Models in Ecology and Evo-
lution meeting, July 8-10 at the Coll ege de France in
Paris.
Nick Barton and Dimtri Petrov are our featured speak-
ers, and there will be contributed talks as well. Our
symposium is scheduled for the last day of the meeting
for extra convenience for those heading to SMBE.
http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/-
minisymposium10.html There are several other
symposia on adaptation at the meeting that should be
of interest to this group as well, in addition to keynote
talks by Michael Doebeli, Maria Servedio, Josh Plotkin,
R egis Ferri ere, and others.
Hope to see you there.
Patrick C. Phillips, Ph.D. Professor of Biology Institute
of Ecology and Evolution Email: pphil@uoregon.edu
Phone: (541) 346-0916 jFAX (541) 346-2364 Address:
5289 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5289 USA
Web: Lab http://www.uoregon.edu/ ~pphil IEE http:/-
/evolution.uoregon.edu
pphil@uoregon.edu
Peru Biodiversity Oct15-18
Conference: Peru.Andes.Amazon.Meeting.Oct15-18
The Peruvian NGO \Centro de Ecologia y Biodiversi-
dad" (CEBIO) invites you to join us at the Interna-
tional Meeting: Biodiversity and Conservation of the
Tropical Andes and the Amazon Rainforest <http://-
andesamazonmeeting.org/ >
Registrations <http://andesamazonmeeting.org/-
meeting-registration/ >are now open. The meetingApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 13
will be held from October 15 to October 18, 2015 at
Lima, Peru.
The objective of the conference is to bring together
foreign and Peruvian scientists involved in biodiversity
research and conservation of ora and fauna in the Trop-
ical Andes and the Amazon Rainforest. The conference
will include plenary talks, symposia, oral and poster pre-
sentations <http://andesamazonmeeting.org/scientic-
program/plenary-speakers/ >.
Meeting themes: Biodiversity, conservation, biogeogra-
phy, systematics, climate change, tropical ecology, DNA
barcoding, bioinformatics, next generation sequencing.
Abstract submission closes on May 1, 2015. <http://-
andesamazonmeeting.org/submit-an-abstract/ >
Please be kind and forward this announcement to others
who may nd this conference of interest.
Yours sincerely,
The Conference organizing Committee,
bioconperu@cebioperu.org
\Frank Azorsa (CEBIO)" <fazorsa@cebioperu.org >
SaoPaulo Evolution Jun26-30
MinorityAirfare
DEADLINE APPROACHING! NESCent/SSE 2015
MSI Faculty Travel Award - Evolution 2015 (Brazil)
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
and the Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE), are
teaming up to provide airfare and conference registration
for faculty from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) to
attend the Evolution 2015 conference in Guaruj a, S~ ao
Paulo, Brazil from June 26-30, 2015. Please note that
all other expenses (food, lodging, ground transporta-
tion, costs associated with visa procurement) are the
responsibility of the traveler.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signicant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with an
opportunity to present original research in evolution,
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the Evolution meetings. As such,your application must include a talk/poster title and ab-
stract. In addition, you will be asked to provide a brief
(1 page) statement describing how this award will con-
tribute to your professional/scientic development, as
well as provide benet to your students and institution.
Depending on your nationality and immigration status,
A VISA MAY BE REQUIRED TO ENTER BRAZIL.
More information can be found at the conference web-
site (http://www.evolution2015.org). ALL AWARD
RECIPIENTS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR FOR OB-
TAINING AND PAYING FOR THEIR OWN VISA,
and the conference organizers advise that it could take
up to a month (or possibly longer) to obtain a visa.
For more information, or to apply, please visit
http://bit.ly/1vsYWYt. If you have any questions
about this program, please contact Jory Weintraub
(jory@nescent.org).
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 15TH, 2015,
5:00 PM PST
AWARDS WIL BE ANNOUNCED BY MARCH 20TH,
2015
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
SaoPaulo Evolution Jun26-30
MinorityStudentTravel
APPLICATION DEADLINE APPROACHING! Evolu-
tion 2015 (Brazil) - Minority Graduate Student Travel
Award
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
and the Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE), are
teaming up to provide airfare and conference registration
for minority graduate students attending the Evolution
2015 conference in Guaruj a, S~ ao Paulo, Brazil from June
26-30, 2015. Please note that all other expenses (food,
lodging, ground transportation, costs associated with
visa procurement) are the responsibility of the traveler.
Applicants must be graduate students at the time of
the conference (June 26-30, 2015), working towards a
Masters or PhD in evolutionary science, evolutionary
ecology, biogeography, evolutionary informatics, evo-14 EvolDir April 1, 2015
lution education or some other eld appropriate for
the focus of the Evolution 2015 conference (http://-
www.evolution2015.org).
Applicants must be members of under-
represented/under-served racial/ethnic groups, as
dened by the National Science Foundation (http://-
www.nsf.gov/statistics/wmpd/).
Applicants must be US citizens, permanent residents,
or foreign nationals currently enrolled in US-based grad-
uate programs. All applicants must be free of any re-
strictions which would prevent them from traveling out
of the US, to Brazil over the dates of the conference.
The application package consists of basic information, a
one-page Statement of Academic Interests and Career
Goals, a brief biosketch, and a Letter of Recommenda-
tion from your academic advisor.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 15TH, 2015,
5:00 PM PST
AWARDS WIL BE ANNOUNCED BY MARCH 20TH,
2015
For more information and to apply, please visit http:/-
/bit.ly/16hefaq .If you have questions, please contact
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Saskaton CanSocEcoEvol May22-24
EarlyBird
We invite you to the 10th Annual Meeting of the Cana-
dian Society for Ecology and Evolution (CSEE) to be
held in Saskatoon (SK, Canada)on 22-24 May 2015.
This year, the theme of the conference is: 'Ecology and
Evolution of Managed Landscapes'. We have an exciting
program of symposia, invited speakers, and eld trips.
Please see the conference website for details: http://-
csee2015.usask.ca/index.php. Conference registration
and the call for presentations are now open. Early bird
fees and the presentation call end March 15th!
Nous vous invitons  a Saskatoon (SK, Canada), du 22 au
24 mai 2015 pour la 10e rencontre annuelle de la SCEEtenue par l'Universit e de la Saskatchewan. Cette ann ee,
le th eme de la conf erence est : ~Acologie et  evolution
des paysages am enag es . Une gamme passionnante
de symposia, conf erenciers invit es et excursions sur le
terrain ont  et e organis es. Pour plus de d etails, veuillez
consulter le site internet de la conf erence : http://-
csee2015.usask.ca/fr/. L'inscription  a la conf erence et
l'appel de pr esentations sont maintenant ouverts. Les
frais d'inscription htive et l'appel de pr esentations se
terminent le 15 mars 2015!
Ciee-Icee@uregina.ca
Scotland EMPSEB
StudentEvolutionaryBiology Sep8-12
Registration is now open for EMPSEB21: The 21st
European Meeting for PhD Students in Evolutionary
Biology
Organised by the University of Edinburgh
Location: University of Stirling - Stirling, UK Date:
September 8-12th, 2015
To register, please visit the following link: http://-
www.epay.ed.ac.uk/browse/extra info.asp?compid=-
1&modid=2&deptid=24&catid=16&prodid=-
1886&searchresults=1 For more information on
the conference please visit our website: http://-
empseb21.bio.ed.ac.uk We look forward to seeing you
in Stirling in September!
{ R. Eileen Buttereld Postgraduate Student, University
of Edinburgh - Edinburgh, UK
\I have long felt that biology ought to seem as exciting
as a mystery story, for a mystery story is exactly what
biology is." - Richard Dawkins, The Selsh Gene
rebecca.eileen.buttereld@gmail.com
StAndrews DrosophilaEvolution
May8
ScotFly 2015
Any Drosophilists in Scotland or nearby are warmly
invited to attend the 4th 1-day \Scottish Fly Meeting",April 1, 2015 EvolDir 15
which will take place at St Andrews on Friday 8th May.
This is a very informal meeting of researchers with
any interest in Drosophila and is relatively unusual in
bringing together people from a broad range of back-
grounds including evolution, development, neurobiology
and physiology. New synergisms have emerged from
previous meetings.
Invited speakers are Barry Denholm (development),
Alistair McGregor (morphology), Megan Neville (be-
haviour), Darren Obbard (immunology) & Stefan Pulver
(neurogenetics).
Contributed talks and posters, from researchers at all
career stages, are welcomed.
To register and submit an abstract please send an e-mail
to scoty@st-andrews.ac.uk. Please send abstracts as
one page using font Arial 12 pt. The closing date is 24
April 2015.
Please visit our website for further information: http:/-
/synergy.st-andrews.ac.uk/drosophila/ The organisers,
Mike Ritchie and Marcus Bischo
Mike Ritchie Centre for Biological Diversity, School
of Biology, University of St Andrews, Fife. Scotland
KY16 9TH UK Phone: 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495
Some websites: Lab: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
ritchielab/ Uni: http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
prole/mgr Google: http://scholar.google.co.uk/-
citations?user=JSkvwMsAAAAJ&hl CBD: http:/-
/biodiversity.st-andrews.ac.uk/ Michael Ritchie
<mgr@st-andrews.ac.uk >
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22
Registration
Dear everyone,
Registration is now open for the 7th European Congress
of Mammalogy in Stockholm (to be held 16-22 August
2015).
To register and pay the conference fee, please follow
the instructions at this page: www.zoologi.su.se/ecm7/-
registration.php Early Registration is until the 15th
of April, and Late Registration will be between 16th of
April and 16th of June.
The aim of the European Congresses of Mammalogy is
to foster communication between researchers working on
issues of mammalian biology in the European arena, aswell as providing a venue for the broad dissemination of
European mammal research. The relaxed and friendly
atmosphere of these congresses provides an excellent
opportunity to hear the latest developments in various
elds of mammalogy, to share research experience and
expertise, and to develop new and closer contacts with
colleagues from dierent countries.
The conference will cover a broad range of topics in
mammal biology, including Species Interactions, Popu-
lation Genetics, Conservation Biology and Ecology &
Landscapes.
Please visit the conference website for further informa-
tion: www.zoologi.su.se/ecm7 Love.Dalen@nrm.se
Sydney Hawkesbury
BiologyTephritidFlies Apr2
Dear colleagues,
From: http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/-
events andseminars/biology oftephritid fruit ies
Researchers from the Australian Tephritid fruit y
community (e.g. CSIRO, QUT, Macquarie, Murdoch,
SARDI, UNSW, UWS) are gathering for an inaugural
semiannual workshop to discuss scientic advances on
the biology of this species group.
Topics can include ecology, chemical ecology, physiology,
genetics, genomics, molecular biology techniques (e.g.
RNAi/CRISPR) and any other discipline that may be
of interest to our stakeholders.
The meeting is free and open for anyone interested in
networking with scientists working in this species group.
Date: 2nd of April 2015 Time: 10am to 15:30
Venue: Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment,
Building R2, Eucalyptus Seminar Registration
required: https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/the-
biology-of-tephritid-fruit-ies-tickets-15969523274
Queries to: http://pubapps.uws.edu.au/teldir/-
personprocess.php?14437
Registrations: If you'd like to give a talk, please let the
organiser know by the 20th of March 2015. Otherwise,
for catering reasons, please register before the 25th of
March 2015.
Accommodation can be provided at the Best Western
Colonial Motel for $118 per room per night (up to 2 peo-
ple per room), please contact Dr Alexie Papanicolaou
for details.16 EvolDir April 1, 2015
thank you, a
Dr. Alexie Papanicolaou Lecturer in Bioinformatics j
Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment University
of Western Sydney jHawkesbury Campus Postal ad-
dress: Locked Bag 1797, Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia
www.uws.edu.au/hie A.Papanicolaou@uws.edu.au
Tours France EukaryoticGenomes
Jul8-10
Dear Colleagues,
LE STUDIUM, Loire Valley Institute for Advanced
Studies, is extremely excited to announce the *Anal-
ysis and Annotation of DNA Repeats and Dark Mat-
ter in Eykaryotic Genomes Conference*, the premiere
event of the year for researchers to meet, discuss and
share ideas on genic repeats and genomes classica-
tion! International leaders in the genomic research will
gather in Tours, France, for the rst time during a
two-day conference over 3 days (*8-10 July 2015*) to
discuss, learn and share ideas on a number of areas
(click here to visit the conference page and announce-
ment <http://www.lestudium-ias.com/#%21analysis-
and-annotation-of-dna-repe/c412 >).
The *Analysis and Annotation of DNA Repeats and
Dark Matter in Eykaryotic Genomes Conference *aims
to shine light on current and emerging research trends
for genomes classication by providing a platform for dis-
cussion with a peloton of internationally acknowledged
leaders.
Please note there are opportunities for poster sessions.
For more information, please visit the conference page
<http://www.lestudium-ias.com/#%21analysis-and-
annotation-of-dna-repe/c412 >
This one-o conference organised with *Dr Yves Bigot,
Research Director (CNRS - INRA Centre Val de Loire,
France) and Dr Peter Arensburger (California State
Polytechnic University, Pomona - USA)* oers a unique
opportunity to meet like-minded researchers, build new
collaborations, visit the INRA Centre Val de Loire site
in Nouzilly near Tours and enjoy the famous local gas-
tronomy and scenery of the Loire Valley region!
We look forward to welcoming you to Tours, Loire Val-
ley, France in next July 2015 and invite you not to
miss the 15th May 2015 early bird registration deadline.
The conference is open to a hundred participants (aca-
demics, post-doctorants, students and R&D scientists,enterprises).
Sincerely,
On behalf of the scientic committee,
Nicola Fazzalari Scientic Director
*LE* *STUDIUM* * ^A* Loire Valley Institute for
Advanced Studies T el. 33 (0)2 38 21 14 85 -
e-mail : nicola.fazzalari@lestudium-ias.fr http://-
www.lestudium-ias.com Sophie Gabillet General Sec-
retary LE STUDIUM ^A Loire Valley Institute for Ad-
vanced Studies 1 Rue Dupanloup - 45000 Orl eans -
FRANCE www.lestudium-ias.com Tel: + 33 (0)2 38 21
14 81 - Portable: + 33 (0)6 67 00 32 22
Sophie Gabillet <sophie.gabillet@lestudium-ias.fr >
Tubingen PopBio May14-16
Dear Colleagues,
*** NOTE: Registration closes April 6 ***
Registration and Abstract submission are now open
for the 28th PopBio Conference on plant ecology and
evolution, which will take place on 14-16 May 2015
in T ubingen, Germany. http://www.popbio2015.uni-
tuebingen.de/ Keynote Speakers: >>Eric
Allan <<(University of Bern, Switzerland) http://-
www.ips.unibe.ch/content/biodiversity/index eng.html
>>Spencer Barrett <<(University of Toronto, Canada)
http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/BarrettLab/ >>Yvonne
Buckley <<(Trinity College Dublin, Ireland) http:/-
/www.tcd.ie/Zoology/research/research/buckley/
>>Sinead Collins <<(University of Edinburgh, UK)
http://www.smallbutmighty.bio.ed.ac.uk/ >>Detlef
Weigel <<(MPI for Developmental Biology, T ubingen)
http://www.weigelworld.org/ The PopBio conference
is hosted by the Plant Population Biology Section
(PopBio) of the Ecological Society of Germany, Austria
and Switzerland (Gf ~A). Conference activities include
oral and poster sessions, an informal welcome mixer on
Wednesday evening (May 13), and a post-conference
excursion Saturday afternoon (May 16) to the beautiful
Schw abische Alb.
Additional information including registration, abstract
submission, and payment information is available on
the PopBio 2015 Website: http://www.popbio2015.uni-
tuebingen.de/ *** IMPORTANT: We strongly
encourage you book accommodation as soon as possible!
*** T ubingen is a popular destination for touristsApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 17
and other conferences, and aordable rooms are
already running low in several places. A small block of
rooms is reserved for most of the following hotels: Krone
^ a:^a:^a:; AmBad ^a:; Fortuna (Reutlingen )^a:^a:; KatarinaGarni ^a:^a:; GarniSand ^a::PleasementionPOPBIOwhenyoumakereservations:
Other places that have vacancies: Garni Metropol
^ a:; Meteora ^a:; AmKupferhammer ^a:^a:; GZTGastehaus ^a:^a:; AlteKrone ^a::Alternatively; youmayrentaroom=flatfromprivateownersoronAirbnb:
We hope to see you there! The T ubingen Team: Mark
Bilton, Michal Gruntman, Madalin Parepa, Niek Scheep-
ens, Sara Tomiolo, Oliver Bossdorf and Katja Tielb orger
http://www.popbio2015.uni-tuebingen.de/-
popbio2015@uni-tuebingen.de
rob.colautti@botany.ubc.ca
Turkey EcolEvolutionaryBiol Aug6-7
Registration
Dear Colleagues,
The 2nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
Turkey 2015 (August 6-7, Ankara) is now accepting
abstract submissions at https://survey.metu.edu.tr/-
78885 Please nd more information at http://-
eebst2015.bio.metu.edu.tr/Home.html We invite talks
and poster presentations in all areas of evolutionary
biology and ecology. All presentations will be in English
and we heartily welcome international participation.
This year's keynote speakers will be Resit Akcakaya
(Stony Brook U.), Sergey Gavrilets (U. Tennessee), Ras-
mus Nielsen (U. California, Berkeley), and Daniel Sim-
berlo (U. Tennessee).
Deadline for abstract submissions is May 15. Registra-
tion closes by July 15.
A Cappadocia Tour will be organized following the meet-
ing, for those interested.
We look forward to seeing you in Ankara!
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Aysegul Birand (birand@metu.edu.tr) and Mehmet
Somel (somel.mehmet@googlemail.com)
somel.mehmet@googlemail.comUBrno PlantGenetics Sep7-10
Mendel Museum of Masaryk University would like to
invite you to the conference
Research in plant genetics (From Mendel's peas to the
present)
which will be take place 7th september - 10th september
2015 in Mendel Museum of Masaryk University in Brno,
Czech Republic.
Conference webside: http://www.mendelgenius.com/-
en/the-conferences/research-in-plant-genetics-from-
mendels-peas-to-the-present Sections/Topics: Mendel's
factors today >From Mendel to population genomics
Where is the message? - Genome structure Non-
Mendelian genetics Reproduction without sex >From
genes to phenotypes The impact. Plant breeding and
agriculture
Invited/keynote speakers: Ueli Grossniklaus, University
of Zurich, Swiss Edward Buckler, Cornell University,
USA Peter van Dijk, KeyGene, Netherlands Cather-
ine Rameau, INRA, Versaille, France Jonathan Wendel,
Iowa State University, USA Dani Zamir, Hebrew Univer-
sity, Jerusalem, Israel Burstin J., INRA Dijon, France
Ellis N., CGIAR, India Varshney R., ICRISAT, India
Important dates: Registration deadline: 30th April 2015
Abstract submission deadline: 30th April 2015
Registration and Call for Papers: Through
attached registration form or webside http://-
www.mendelgenius.com/en/the-conferences/research-
in-plant-genetics-from-mendels-peas-to-the-present
Contact: Mendel Museum of Masaryk University
Mendlovo n am. 1a 603 00 Brno Czech Republic e-mail:
info@mendelmuseum.muni.cz <mailto:info@mendelmuseum.muni.cz >
phone: 00420 549 496 669
www.mendelmuseum.muni.cz < http:/-
/www.mendelmuseum.muni.cz >
www.mendelgenius.com < http://-
www.mendelgenius.com >
We are looking forward to see you in Brno, Czech Re-
public!
\Wendel, Jonathan F [EEOBS]" <jfw@iastate.edu >18 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo
Aug5-9
Get new Ideas, learn new techniques, form new collabo-
rations: 2015 Meeting of PanAm EvoDevo
REGISTRATION NOW OPEN for the inaugural meet-
ing of the Pan American Society for Evolutionary De-
velopmental Biology <http://www.evodevopanam.org/
>! Mark your calendars for 5-9 August, 2015,
Register NOW before all 350 slots are lled!
*The registration deadline is April 1, 2015. Click
**here* <http://www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{
events.html >* to register.*
Join us in Berkeley, California for the rst EvoDevo
meeting in the Americas sponsored by a new profes-
sional society dedicated to supporting the EvoDevo
eld!
A few meeting highlights:
- *Conrmed speakers: *Chris Amemiya, Alexa Bely,
Sean Carroll, Rachel Collin, Kim Cooper, Tamara Franz-
Odendaal, Matt Gibson, Angela Hay, Vivian Irish,
Catherine Linnen, Mark Martindale, Jose Xavier Neto,
Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early Career Award Recipient),
Richard Palmer, Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award recipient),
Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
Smith, Ralf Sommer, Mansi Srivastava, James Umen
- *Contributed papers *selected from submitted ab-
stracts: submit now to ensure you have a chance to
present your work.
- Small, friendly symposia with focused breakout groups
and workshops
- Engaging posters on display throughout the entire
meeting
- Poster awards and prizes for students and postdocs
All details about registration, accommodations, child
care, and the conference program are available at
the following website: http://www.evodevopanam.org/-
meetings{events.html Support the Society and Be-
come a Member!! To learn more about PASEDB, visit
the following website: http://www.evodevopanam.org/
Chelsea D. Specht, PhD Associate Professor; De-
partments of Plant and Microbial Biology & Inte-
grative Biology Curator of Monocots; University and
Jepson Herbaria University of California, Berkeley111 Koshland Hall, MC 3102 Berkeley, CA 94720
510.642.5601
cdspecht@berkeley.edu http://spechtlab.berkeley.edu/
Chelsea Specht <cdspecht@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo
Aug5-9 Deadlines
Secure your spot now at the EvoDevo Event of the Year!
1) Join PanAm EvoDevo.
2) Register and submit an abstract - NOW.
3) Attend the meeting \ August 5th in Berkeley, CA.
Registration for the inaugural meeting of the Pan Amer-
ican Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology is
open! Register and Submit your Abstract by April 1 to
secure your spot. Mark your calendars for the meeting
dates, 5-9 August, 2015.
There are only a few spaces left to attend, and a few
days left to submit your abstract!!!
The registration deadline is April 1, 2015. Click here to
register.
Follow us: @EvoDevoPanAm Join Us: #EvoDevo15
A few meeting highlights:
- Invited speakers: Chris Amemiya, Alexa Bely, Sean
Carroll, Rachel Collin, Kim Cooper, Tamara Franz-
Odendaal, Matt Gibson, Angela Hay, Vivian Irish,
Catherine Linnen, Mark Martindale, Jose Xavier Neto,
Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early Career Award Recipient),
Richard Palmer, Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award recipient),
Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
Smith, Ralf Sommer, Mansi Srivastava, James Umen
- Selected abstracts chosen for presentations by members;
faculty, postdocs and students encouraged to apply.
- Posters on display throughout the entire meeting
- Poster prizes for PhD students and postdocs
- Child Care reimbursement available!! Bring the whole
family.
All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, childcare services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member, and enjoy the
benets of being part of the fast-growing and intellectu-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 19
ally invigorating EvoDevo community!! To learn more
about PASEDB, visit the following website: http://-
www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Committee
and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look forward
to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
Ehab Abouheif Karen Sears Nipam Patel Chris Lowe
cdspecht@berkeley.edu
UHudderseld ProtistEvolution
Apr15-17
BSPB 2015 Registration Open
The 2015 British Society For Protist Biology Spring
Meeting will be held between 15-17th April 2015 at the
University of Hudderseld. The conference will host two
mini-symposia - Experimental Evolution in Protists and
The Evolution of Multicellularity - as well as sessions
for posters, student talks and contributed talks.
A limited number of student bursaries will be allocated
to Society members who are presenting at the conference
and will be oered on a rst come-rst served basis.
Reduced rate Early Bird registration will be open until
the 28th March 2015. Full price registration will remain
open after this date.
The following speakers will be presenting in the sym-
posia: Experimental Evolution In Protists Will Ratcli
(Georgia Tech) - Plenary Mike Brockhurst (York) Dun-
can Cameron (Sheeld) Ville Friman (Imperial) Oliver
Kaltz (Montpellier) Kai Lohbeck (Kiel) Chris Lowe (Ex-
eter) Peter O'Toole (York)
Evolution of Multicellularity I naki Ruiz-Trillo
(Barcelona) - Plenary Mark Cock (Rosco) Frank
Nitsche (Cologne) Daniel Richter (Rosco) Pauline
Schaap (Dundee)
BSPB Meeting Webpage: http://www.protist.org.uk/-
meetings.html Martin Carr BSPB Treasurer British
Society for Protist Biology http://www.protist.org.uk
Martin Carr <martcarr74@gmail.com >ULisbon ReticulateEvolution Jul17
CFA: Thematic Session on Reticulate Evolution Before
and After the Modern Synthesis: Historical and Episte-
mological Perspectives and Wider Applications Beyond
Traditional Fields -Organized by Nathalie Gontier &
Jan Sapp
***DEADLINE APRIL 1st, 2015***
University of Lisbon, 17th of July, 2015 Website http://-
iss-symbiosis.org/Symposia INVITED SPEAKERS Eric
Bapteste, Vitor G. Faria & Elio Sucena, Ricardo Guer-
rero, Frank Kressing, and Laura Weyrich. Abstracts are
now online at: http://appeel.fc.ul.pt/sub/eve/dir/iss/-
iss.html CALL FOR ABSTRACTS & POSTERS We
welcome Senior and Junior Researchers to submit poster
or regular talks (20 minutes). The full call can be read
at http://appeel.fc.ul.pt/sub/eve/dir/iss/iss.html AB-
STRACT SUBMISSION If you would like to participate
in the session, then submit your talk or poster abstract
before April 1st, 2015 at http://iss-symbiosis.org/page-
1805892 Be sure to select the specic thematic session:
\Reticulate Evolution Before and After the Modern Syn-
thesis"
REGISTRATION
You can register for the specic symposium or the full
conference, and please note that becoming an ISSmem-
ber reduces the registration fee. ISS will also provide
a limited amount of travel awards to students. Reg-
istration procedures are detailed by the International
Symbiosis Society at http://iss-symbiosis.org/ . appee-
lannouncements <appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt >
UMichigan AnnArbor PopGenet
Jul25-26
{001a11c39ce21100ae0512486f69 Content-Type:
text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Dear Colleagues,
The eld of population genetics has a remarkable tradi-
tion of being a tight-knit and nurturing community. In
order to better foster that sense of community for the20 EvolDir April 1, 2015
popgen groups in the Midwest, we thought it would be
fun to organize a short scientic conference to which we
could bring our labs and have meaningful introductions
and interactions. After a successful rst trial last year
(Evidence on https://midwestpopgen.wordpress.com/),
we are excited to run this meeting again.
Thus, we'd like to invite you to come and bring your
group to the meeting of the MidWest Population Ge-
netics group, which will be held on July 25-26th at the
University of Michigan. The meeting will begin Satur-
day and continue to Sunday with a BBQ on Saturday
evening.
The keynote speaker will be Goncalo Abecasis, chair
of Biostatistics at the University of Michigan. Thir-
teen 25 minute talks will be selected from submitted
abstracts. Students are especially encouraged to attend
and present their work. There will be a small prize for
best poster and best talk by a student or postdoctoral
fellow.
Space is limited, so if you do plan to attend, please
RSVP to szoellne@umich.edu or sign up on http://-
tinyurl.com/kv3vtx4 by June 1, and submit your ab-
stracts by June 1 to dconrad@genetics.wustl.edu so we
can nalize our program. There is no registration fee.
The tentative schedule follows below. We do hope that
you can make it and help establish this as an important
meeting for the population geneticists in our region!
All the best,
Don Conrad, WashU
John Novembre, Chicago
Bret Payseur, Wisconsin
Sebastian Zollner, Michigan
Draft Agenda:
Saturday
12:00-1:30pm Registration and light lunch
1:30-3:30 Four 25 minute talks
3:30-4:30 Posters
4:30-5:30 Keynote
7:30-11 BBQ
Sunday
8-9 Breakfast
9-10:30 Three 25 minute talks
10:30-10:45 Break
10:45-12:15 Three 25 minute talks
12:15-1:30pm Lunch1:30-2:25pm Three 25 minute talks
{001a11c39ce21100ae0512486f69
UMichigan ECSS Microbiome Ecol
Evol Mar28
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce this year's Early Career Sci-
entist Symposium, to be held Saturday, March 28, 2015
in East Hall on the campus of the University of Michi-
gan, Ann Arbor. The theme this year is \Ecosystems
within organisms: ecology and evolutionary biology of
the microbiome."
Our outstanding lineup of keynote speakers and emerg-
ing leaders will address topics such as the role of the
microbiome in disease processes, micro-evolution, and
development, meta-community theory in host-associated
communities, multi-host multi-parasite systems, and eco-
immunology. The research focus ranges from bacteria
to metazoans and from tness eects on host organ-
isms or their microbiota to the downstream eects of
microbiomes on ecosystems.
We are delighted to announce our keynote speakers:
Seth Bordenstein, Associate Professor, Departments of
Biological Sciences and Pathology, Microbiology, and
Immunology, Vanderbilt University
Georgiana May, Professor, College of Biological Sciences,
University of Minnesota.
The following series of talks and interaction time have
been scheduled:
Seth Bordenstein (Vanderbilt U.): The microbiome and
Darwin's mystery of mysteries
Katherine Amato (U. Colorado): Into the wild: explor-
ing the inuence of gut microbes on host ecology and
behavior
Kevin Kohl (National U. San Luis): Friends for life: gut
microbes allow herbivores to consume toxicplants
Andrea Jani (U. Hawaii): Microbial ecology of an infec-
tious disease: Do symbiotic bacteria protect frogs from
the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis?
Kelly Weinersmith (Rice U.): Parasite manipulation of
host phenotype: mechanisms, behavior, ecology, and
evolution
Lunch and poster session, East Hall, third oor terraceApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 21
Rachel Vannette (Stanford U.): Community assembly
and function of the oral microbiome
Justine Garcia (Emory U.): Animals in a microbial
world: partner delity and of horizontal bacterial sym-
bioses in true bugs
Angela Poole (Cornell U.): Human salivary amylase
gene copy number impacts the gut microbiome and its
function
Georgiana May (U. Minnesota): Microbial interactions
drive the evolution of virulence in pathogens
Dinner reception, Museum of Natural History, Hall of
Evolution, second oor
Register to attend : http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/
Registration is free of charge but we strongly encourage
you to register so we may provide adequate food and re-
freshment. Graduate students from all universities and
all disciplines are invited to present their work during a
lunchtime poster session, and can indicate so when they
register.
Lunch will be provided at the poster session and a dinner
reception will follow the symposium.
Looking forward to your participation,
2015 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing com-
mittee
Tim James (chair) Chelsea Wood Kevin Theis Marian
Schmidt Thomas Jenkinson
For further information, contact
Kimberly Fonville <kimafon@umich.edu >Kimberly
Fonville <kimafon@umich.edu >
UMichigan SocSystematicBiol
May20-22
*Society of Systematic Biologists Stand-alone meeting
2015*
Please join us for the upcoming meeting of the Society
of Systematic Biologists, May 20-22, 2015, to be held
at the University of Michigan. This meeting, joint with
iEvoBio, features a series of software demos, workshops
and panels designed to encourage to one-on-one interac-
tions and in depth discussions. Participants are invited
to give lightening talks. Grants-in-aid are available for
attending the meeting, and housing will be available via
dorm-rooms on the campus of the University of Michi-gan. Details about the schedule, grants, and registration
is available at http://ssb2015standalone.weebly.com/
Note that attendance will be capped at 300 participants
so register early.
The panel discussions include:
- - *Species concepts are outmoded and hinder progress
in evolutionary biology *(Chris Simon and James Mal-
let)
- - *Molecular dates are reliable and provide a robust
foundation for interpreting the history of life* (Charles
Marshall and Blair Hedges)
- - *More data or better models* (David Hillis and
Antonis Rokas)
- - *Accurate inference with comparative methods? The
eld isn't paying enough attention to learning the limits
of what we can know* (Wayne Maddison and C ecile
An e)
The workshop topics include:
- - *Computational Macroevolution: Analysis and Visu-
alization of Complex Evolutionary Dynamics on Phylo-
genies (Dan Rabosky)*
- - *Publishing digital phylogenies: choosing content,
formats, repositories and licenses that make trees useful
for future work (Karen Cranston)*
- - *Comparative methods in R (Brian O'Meara)*
- - *Model-based Biogeographical Analyses: Principles
and Practice** (*Jeet Sukumaran)
- - Species-tree estimation from SNPs to sequences
(Laura Kubatko)
- - Interrogating transcriptomic data from processing to
analysis (Stephen Smith)
- - *Bayesian methods for estimating divergence times
(Tracy Heath)*
Note that these workshops are in addition to a Sympo-
sium and Software School that will be oered as a pre-
meeting workshop (May 18-19) by Tandy Warnow. The
symposium will cover new methods for multiple sequence
alignments, genome-scale species tree estimation, phy-
logenetic network estimation, and metagenomic taxon
identication. The software school will include hands-on
tutorials in new methods, and taught by the develop-
ers of the software. No fee will be charged, and travel
awards of up to $500 per person are available. Please
see http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu/symposium-2015.html
for more information.
dewitt832@gmail.com22 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16
EarlyBird ClosingThisSunday
Hello evoldir community,
last chance for early bird registration: register by Sun-
day, March 1, to save up to 30% on the registration
fee for SMBE 2015, held in one of the most beautiful
cities at the spectacular Imperial Palace (Hofburg) in
the heart of Vienna!
A few meeting highlights:
- All posters will be on display throughout the entire
meeting.
- At least four poster sessions
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
speakers will be selected though the Local Organising
Committee (LOC).
- Plenary speakers: Doris Bachtrog (UC Berkeley), Joe
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt
(UC Davis) and Diethard Tautz (MPI for Evolutionary
Biology).
- Heavily subsidized child care
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS.aspx): | Poster prize for postdocs and PhD
students | Fitch prize | Young investigator travel
awards | Junior and mid career research awards |
Child Care Travel Awards
- aordable accommodation (starting from euro 19,-
/night. Also many double rooms are available for euro
60,- /night incl. breakfast)
All details about registration, accommodation options
and travel discounts are available at the conference
website: www.smbe2015.at The Local Organising Com-mittee is looking forward to welcome you to Vienna in
July!
julia.hosp@gmail.com
Zurich EvolMed Jul30-Aug1
\Dear Colleagues,
Just as a gentle reminder: The abstract deadline for the
"Evolutionary Medicine Conference: Interdisciplinary
Perspectives on Human Health and Disease\ (Juli 30-
August 1 2015 in Zurich, Switzerland) is approaching
now:
- Abstract Deadline: March 30, 2015 - Early registration
Deadline: May 31, 2015
Find all relevant information (abstract submission,
registration, accommodation, etc.) on our o-
cial conference webpage: http://www.iem.uzh.ch/-
evolmedconf2015.html Please get in contact with us if
you have questions: evolmedconf@gmail.com
Thanks for sharing the event and the call for abstracts
among your colleagues!
We would be happy to welcome you in Zurich soon...
Best wishes
Frank R uhli, Nicole Bender and Kaspar Staub (Confer-
ence Organisers)"
Dr. Kaspar Staub Institute Manager, Senior Research
Assistant Morphology/Imaging Group Institute of Evo-
lutionary Medicine (IEM) University of Zurich Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland Oce
Y42 G88a Phone +41 44 635 05 13, Mobile +41 79
473 83 55, Fax: +41446355702 kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch
http://www.iem.uzh.ch/people/kasparstaub.html Kas-
par Staub <kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch >April 1, 2015 EvolDir 23
GradStudentPositions
Austria EvolutionGenomeSize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Berlin ConservationFisheries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
BielefeldU MarinePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
BournemouthU HumanComparativePhylogeography 25
CurtinU Australia MarinePopulationGenetics . . . . . 26
CzechRepublic MontaneSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Europe 15 WineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Groningen 3PhD PDF OriginSpecies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
IMPRS UKiel EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
IZW Berlin 2 EvolutionaryDiseaseDynamics . . . . . . . 29
Kaust SaudiArabia UVBRadiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
KLIVV Vienna FishBreedingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
LaurentianU 2 WildlifeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
LeibnizInst Berlin PleistoceneImmunoDiversity . . . . 32
LundU Sweden SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
MichiganTechU Watermilfoil PopulationGenetics . . 33
NewcastleU 2 PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
NewcastleU PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
Portugal Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34QUT Brisbane Australia MammalEvolution . . . . . . . 35
Rennes UWuerzburg FishEvolutionSex . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
TulaneU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UAberdeen InsectNicheEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UAdelaide GenomicEvolutionAncientDNA . . . . . . . . 37
UAmsterdam MiteGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UBern PlantHerbivoreInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UBristol MolecularConvergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UBritishColumbia ConservGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UExeter CellEvolutionPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UFlorida InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UHudderseld 5 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UMelbourne Insecticide Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UNewSouthWales LizardEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UQueensland SexBiasedGeneExpression . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UStAndrews Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UTulsa ComparativeTranscriptomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UZurich OrchidSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Austria EvolutionGenomeSize
PhD position: Evolutionary ecology of genome size
Despite an explosive increase of genomic information
during the last decade the ultimate causes of genome
size variation in eukaryotes are still controversial. At
the core of this controversy is the puzzling genome
size variation across eukaryotic taxa, which spans ap-
proximately ve orders of magnitude. The goal of this
project is to investigate the mechanisms and signicance
of genome size variation at short evolutionary timescales,
such as variation among closely related species, among
populations, and among individuals within a popula-
tion. Our model system is the facultative asexual rotifer
Brachionus plicatilis, a cryptic species complex con-
sisting of at least 14 closely related species. Within
this complex we focus on a lineage that has under-
gone a 1.9-3.5 fold increase in genome size relative to
its sister-species (e.g., http://www.biomedcentral.com/-
1471-2148/11/90/abstract). Within this lineage we also
study a population that exhibits a remarkable 25% con-
tinuous variation in genome size. The project aims are:
(1) to elucidate the mechanisms of genome size variation
by comparative genome sequencing (2) to experimentally
determine how variation in genome size is maintainedwithin populations and inherited during sexual repro-
duction, and (3) to test assumptions and predictions of
general hypotheses on genome size evolution using intra-
population genome size variation, e.g., that clones with
small genome size are favored by selection for maximum
population growth rates under nutrient limitation, that
clones with large genome size accumulate deleterious
mutations faster than clones with small genome size,
or that genome size variation at the population level
signicantly co-varies with cell size, body size and egg
development time.
The PhD candidate will be involved in all three project
aims, in particular aims (1) and (3). On the method-
ological level, the PhD project will include experimental
work with rotifer cultures, genome size measurements
using ow cytometry, basic molecular genetic techniques
(e.g., PCR), genome sequencing and bioinformatics. The
latter will be done in close collaboration with Dr. David
Mark Welch at the Josephine Bay Paul Center (MBL,
Woods Hole, USA). This will involve a stay at the MBL
for a training in genomic analysis of approximately two
weeks duration. The main work will be done at the
research institute for limnology in Mondsee (http://-
www.uibk.ac.at/limno/), which is part of the University
of Innsbruck. The PhD candidate will be expected to
enroll at University of Innsbruck. The project is funded
by the Austrian Science Funds (FWF) and salary is
according to their regulations (https://www.fwf.ac.at/-24 EvolDir April 1, 2015
en/research-funding/personnel-costs/).
The Institute for Limnology is located in Mondsee, a
small town in the Salzkammergut lake district, which
lies approximately 30 km east of the City of Salzburg
and 200 km east of the City of Innsbruck. The Salzkam-
mergut area is among the most popular regions in Aus-
tria. It oers a high quality of life and exceptional
opportunities for all kinds of outdoor activities. The
Institute has a sta complement of approximately 30,
including 8 research scientists, who work on various
areas in evolutionary ecology of aquatic organisms.
Applicants should have a M.Sc. degree and a good back-
ground in evolutionary biology. Previous experience in
experimental work is also advantageous. To apply for
this position, please provide: (i) a letter of motivation (in
English) including a statement of your research interests,
relevant skills and experience; (ii) a short CV including
publications (if applicable); (iii) the names of at least two
independent referees. All materials should be emailed as
a single PDF to claus-peter.stelzer@uibk.ac.at with the
subject heading EVOL GSPHD. Application dead-
line is the 04 Apr 2015. The University of Innsbruck is
an equal opportunity employer and particularly encour-
ages applications from women.
For more details, please contact: Dr. Claus-Peter Stelzer
(claus-peter.stelzer@uibk.ac.at)
\Ric:; Simone00<Simone:Riss @uibk:ac:at >
Berlin ConservationFisheries
Graduate position: Berlin.ConservationFisheries
A three-year Early Stage Researcher (ESR), preferably
a doctoral (PhD) student, in the eld of \Economic
and Social Value of Conservation of Endangered Migra-
tory Fishes" is sought within a newly funded EU Marie
SkAodowska-Curie Initial Training Network (ITN) enti-
tled IMPRESS. IMPRESS (Improved production strate-
gies for endangered freshwater species, www.impress-
itn.eu) is coordinated by the Norwegian University of
Life Sciences (NBUM) in Oslo, Norway, and involves 15
ESRs hosted by 9 dierent organizations in Europe. The
candidate sought here will join the Fisheries Research
group of Prof. Dr. Robert Arlinghaus in the Depart-
ment of Biology and Ecology of Fishes at the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries in
Berlin, Germany and shall be recruited by June, 1, 2015.
More details on the position and how to apply can befound here: http://www.igb-berlin.de/stellenangebote-
details/items/515.html Robert Arlinghaus
Prof. Dr. Robert Arlinghaus Leibniz-Institute of Fresh-
water Ecology and Inland Fisheries Department of Biol-
ogy and Ecology of Fishes M uggelseedamm 310 12587
Berlin
and
Laboratory for Integrative Fisheries Management Fac-
ulty of Life Sciences Albrecht-Daniel-Thaer-Institute of
Agriculture and Horticulture Humboldt-Universit at zu
Berlin
For running projects: www.besatz-sch.de www.b-
types.igb-berlin.de www.bioenv.gu.se/english/-
salmoinvade For further information and pub-
lication download: www.agrar.hu-berlin.de/-
fakultaet/departments/dntw/jp bfm/publ html
www.besatz-sch.de www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Robert Arlinghaus?ev=hdr xprf www.besatz-sch.de/-
adaptsh News on twitter: https://twitter.com/-
RArlinghausFish Kate Laskowski <laskowski@igb-
berlin.de >
BielefeldU
MarinePopulationGenetics
Early stage fellowship: Marine population genetics
Supervisors: Dr. Joe Homan (Bielefeld University,
Germany), Dr Liz Harper (Cambridge University, UK)
and Dr Melody Clark (British Antarctic Survey, UK)
Funding is available for an early stage fellowship as part
of a Marie Curie Initial Training Network. The fellow
will be based in the Homan lab at Bielefeld University
(www.thehomanlab.com) and will have the opportu-
nity to register for a PhD. The fellowship will provide
training in cutting-edge population genomic approaches
and oers excellent opportunities for networking plus
individually tailored training and industrial placements.
The fellow should therefore be in a strong position after-
wards to pursue a career in either academia or industry.
There is mounting concern over the acidication of the
Worlds oceans. In the 250 years since the onset of the
industrial revolution, atmospheric CO2 levels have risen
from 280 to 381 parts per million and average ocean pH
has fallen from 8.16 to 8.05. Human-driven emissions of
CO2 continue to rise and have begun to outstrip even the
most pessimistic of IPCC model scenarios. How will lifeApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 25
in the oceans adapt to this changing environment? Par-
ticular concern has been expressed over organisms with
heavily calcied shells such as molluscs, as their ability
to extract carbonate ions from seawater and incorporate
these into their skeletons may be compromised.
This position forms part of a Marie Curie Initial Train-
ing Network entitled CACHE: Calcium in a Changing
Environment, funded by the EU (ref: 605051) and co-
ordinated by the British Antarctic Survey. The aim
of this network is to take a coordinated multidisci-
plinary approach to understanding calcium regulation
and shell production in four commercially important
shellsh species, the king scallop (Pecten maximus),
the Pacic oyster, (Crassostrea gigas), the blue mussel
(Mytilus edulis) and the soft shell clam (Mya arenaria).
The network comprises 10 partners from 6 European
countries, including research institutes, universities and
commercial enterprises. As a member of the network,
the fellow will be expected to work cooperatively within
the network, participate in European training events
and spend up to 30% of their training with another net-
work partner. Full details of the network can be found
at www.cache-ITN.eu . The fellow will use population
genomic approaches including RAD sequencing and tran-
scriptomics to (i) conduct a comparative analysis of the
population structure of the four species along a Euro-
pean latitudinal cline; (ii) explore how stocking practices,
hybridization, oceanographic barriers and life-history
interact to shape population structure; (iii) determine
the relative contributions of genotype and phenotypic
plasticity to shell morphology and ultrastructure; (iv)
test for signatures of selection at candidate genes in-
volved in calcium regulation and deposition. There will
also be scope for the fellow to explore their own related
interests within the framework of this project and in
collaboration with the other partners.
We seek a bright and highly motivated candidate who
holds an M.Sc. or equivalent in a relevant topic (e.g.
marine biology, population or evolutionary genetics,
bioinformatics). The ideal candidate will have strong
quantitative skills and ideally some experience of pro-
gramming, although training can be provided. Experi-
ence of RAD sequencing would also be advantageous
but is not necessary. The candidate should also be able
to work both independently and as part of a multidisci-
plinary team. A high standard of spoken and written
English is required.
The fellow will join the Homan lab, a young and dy-
namic group comprising ve PhD students and a post-
doc. They will be based at the Department of Animal Be-
haviour at Bielefeld University (www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/animalbehaviour/home.html). The department
currently hosts six principal investigators, seven post-docs and over thirty PhD students. It oers a stimulat-
ing international environment and an excellent research
infrastructure including brand new molecular laborato-
ries and computing facilities. The working language of
the Department is English.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to the Teutoberger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers
a very high standard of living and is well connected to
most major European cities.
This fellowship oers a generous stipend of at least
$ a3700 per month, including a mobility allowance, for
a period of 2.5 years. Funding is also available for the
fellow to attend annual meetings and training work-
shops in Portugal and elsewhere. The fellow will be
encouraged to register for a PhD at Bielefeld University.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BournemouthU
HumanComparativePhylogeography
PhD position at Bournemouth University:
Project Title
Human Biogeography: Comparative Phylogeography of
Modern Humans and Other Organisms
Project Summary
Aims and Rationale - We will compare the published
phylogeographies (genetic biogeographies) of modern
humans with those of other vertebrates to elucidate
the patterns of population movement in the past. The
science of phylogeography provides an understanding
of the population dynamics of species in relation to
landscape, climate and human related processes over
the last 50 thousand years. Species respond to these
processes individually, for example using dierent refu-
gia at dierent times. The location of these refugia is
also determined by the geography and topography of
the landscape. Phylogeography can be used to identify
the location of these species refugia and/or the place of
origin of domestic / commensal species.
Methods - Phylogeographic studies have been performed26 EvolDir April 1, 2015
on organisms as varied as red deer, trout, snails, oak
trees, ferns and bacterial and viral pathogens like Black
Death and Rabies. Studies have also been done on
domestic (sheep, cattle, wheat) and commensal (house
mouse, black rat) plants and animals. The data from
most of these studies are deposited on GenBank (a freely
accessible online database). The project will analyse
such data to look at the various patterns seen in each
species which can then be grouped by similarity accord-
ing to geographical and genetic diversity indices. These
will include the likely divergence dates of the diversity as
well as the topology of the species' phylogenetic tree or
network diagrams. The data will also be analysed using
GIS and associated geospacial statistics to help identify
the place of origin and source of spread of populations.
Hypotheses: Human phylogeographic patterns in Eu-
rope that relate to Upper Palaeolithic distribution
change will generally have a North/South distribution
similar to wild species coming out of ice age climate
refugia. Those patterns with an East/West distribution
will be similar to taxa whose climate refugia was in the
East (or South East) or to that of domestic/commensal
plants and animals whose origins lay in the South East,
representing Neolithic or later distribution change.
Clearly dened outputs - The outputs would include
a paper submitted to a high impact journal (Nature,
Science, PNAS) summarising the general results of the
project. A further three papers are envisaged in subject
specic journals like Molecular Ecology, Journal of Hu-
man Evolution and the Journal of Biogeography. The
results of the work will also be presented at interna-
tional meetings such as that of the Society of Molecular
Biology and Evolution, the European Society of Human
Evolution etc.
Academic Impact
Stewart's paper in Science which looks at Late Pleis-
tocene Humans outside of Africa in relation to the bio-
geographical patterns of other organisms suggests that
there would be an appetite amongst the people in the
human evolution community for such an analysis. The
research will have an impact on biological anthropology
(human evolution), biogeography and molecular ecology
thanks to the production of a minimum of 4 publications
as well as the participation at international conferences
(see above).
The evolution and population genetics (phylogeogra-
phy) of humans receives a disproportionate amount of
attention. Other organisms, although they do not re-
ceive the same depth of attention as humans represent
the breadth of possible patterns and corresponding pro-
cesses that can exist in organisms over these time scales.
Comparing the genetic patterns in humans with thosein other organisms will help identify similarities and
dierences between them. The ecological and general
biological characteristics of similar and diering species'
patterns will help reduce the possible explanations for
those patterns. For example humans are widespread
geographically similar to wolves, ravens and pike but
their phylogeographic patterns are dierent which may
be driven by dierent limitations on their dispersals or
the length of time since dispersal.
Societal Impact
The evolution of humans receives a lot of media coverage
and Stewart is regularly interviewed by the media on
this topic, both relating to his own research and that of
other scientists (e.g. New Scientist, BBC World Service).
The response of organisms to climate change is also of
great interest to the public and receives a corresponding
amount of media attention in light of current climatic
changes and species' range shifts. The proposed project
will undoubtedly have a signicant impact due to the
public interest it generates.
The understanding of population dynamics in species
is important to future conservation of biotas, so the
proposed project will have an important contribution to
make to conservation planning. Stewart was involved in
a Natural England consultancy project looking at the
identication of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CurtinU Australia
MarinePopulationGenetics
'Population Connectivity of Reef Fish in Tropical north-
western Australia'
Application Closing Date: until lled
PhD Project with Curtin University, Perth Australia
This project will employ state of the art genotype-by-
sequencing methodologies to generate a large volume of
single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and microsatel-
lite DNA genetic data to provide the rst comprehensive
investigation of ecological connectivity in the Kimberley
marine environment in NW Australia. The researchApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 27
outcomes will inform the management of sh and other
exploited resources and also the design of marine pro-
tected areas and o-reserve assets in this remarkable
yet understudied region. We anticipate that the ap-
proach used in this project will serve as a template for
investigating ecological connectivity in other regions of
Western Australia.
The project is a partnership between Curtin Univer-
sity, the Western Australian Marine Science Institute
(WAMSI) and the Department of Fisheries, WA. We
are seeking an Australian or International postgraduate
student to develop and deploy contemporary and next
generation genomic markers for various sh species along
the tropical coast of north-western Australia with the
remote and environmentally extreme Kimberley region
comprising the main focal area.
One of the major aims of the PhD research will be to
infer the routine distances of dispersal and patterns of
connectivity among populations of key sh species along
the NWA coast (e.g. stripey snapper, blue tusksh and
the range restricted Miller's damselsh). Through the
genetic analyses of key taxa with contrasting dispersive
life histories the techniques utilised in this project will
provide species- specic estimates of realised connectiv-
ity at reef-scale (hundreds of metres), inter-reef scale
(kilometres-tens of kilometres) and inter-region scale
(tens-hundreds of kilometres).
Eligibility criteria: Students must have a First Class
Honours or equivalent to be eligible for an Australian
Postgraduate Award (APA), or if an international stu-
dent have 1-2 publications in high quality, peer-reviewed
journals and have lead or co-ordinated a signicant
research project to be eligible for a Curtin Interna-
tional Postgraduate Scholarship (CIPRS). Interested
candidates should contact Dr Jennifer McIlwain (jen-
nifer.mcilwain@curtin.edu.au) for further information
and send a cover letter outlining their research interest
and experience along with their CV.
Dr Jennifer McIlwain Ph.D (Marine Ecology) Head of
Department Department of Environment and Agricul-
ture School of Science Curtin University Tel j+61 8
9266 9041
Emailjjennifer.mcilwain@curtin.edu.au Web jhttp://-
curtin.edu.au jennifer.mcilwain@curtin.edu.auCzechRepublic MontaneSpeciation
*PhD: BCCeskeBudejovice.MontaneSpeciation*
We are seeking a highly motivated postgraduate student
to join our international team studying speciation in
plants and insects along tropical altitudinal gradients.
We are based at the Laboratory for Tropical Ecology at
the Institute of Entomology, Biology Centre Academy
of Sciences, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic,
The successful applicant will have strong background
in:
Entomology
Botany
Bioinformatics
Molecular ecology
Population genetics
And/or biostatistics
He/she will be supervised by Simon Segar and expected
to develop a research programme on speciation in *Fi-
cus*, their pollinating wasps and symbiotic microbes
of the wasps along a continuously forested altitudinal
gradient in Papua New Guinea (PNG). The project
will involve eld work in PNG and the use of next
generation sequencing to study the population genet-
ics of plant/insect/microbe networks. The successful
candidate will be expected to work closely with our
collaborators at the University of Minnesota (USA) and
the Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment at the
University of Western Sydney (Australia).
The position is fully funded (tuition, research and living
expenses) for EU applicants only (but candidates from
all countries are eligible). The duration of the position
is four years and a completed MSc degree is required as
is the equivalent of a 1st or 2.1 undergraduate degree
in biology, ecology or a related eld. The successful
candidate will have to conduct eld work in a tropical
forest in often challenging conditions. They will be able
to work independently and have experience with the
collection and analysis of population genetic data.
For further details of the project please and group see:
https://www.dropbox.com/s/ot87j4keilszs/-
PhD%20Project%20Description.docx?dl=0 http://-
www.entu.cas.cz/png/cv-novotny-vojtech-lab.html28 EvolDir April 1, 2015
To apply please send a CV, contact details for three
references, and cover letter stating qualications,
previous work and motivation to Simon Segar (si-
mon.t.segar@gmail.com). The deadline for applications
is April 20th 2015, with a preferred start date of June
1st.
Simon Segar <simon.t.segar@gmail.com >
Europe 15 WineEvolution
Applications are now invited for 15 PhD positions
('Early Stage Researchers') to be funded by the
Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network
'MICROWINE-Microbial Metagenomics and the Mod-
ern Wine Industry', a multidisciplinary study on Viti-
culture and Wine Microbiology within the Horizon2020
programme of the European Union. Each PhD position
is fully funded for 3 years. The positions are based at
13 institutions, in 8 countries, and cover a wide range
of disciplines including microbial metagenomics, wine
genetics, bioinformatics, geology, chemistry and mathe-
matical modeling. ESR's must commence no later than
1st September 2015. For full details on the network,
sub-projects, host institutions, eligibility requirements,
and how to apply please go to the project website at
http://www.microwine.eu/recruitment Please note that
applications are welcomed from any qualied applicants,
regardless of gender, ethnicity or country of origin, but
will only be considered if eligibility requirements are met
and the application guidelines are strictly adhered to.
For further information please contact the project admin-
istrator, Lea Ellegaard-Jensen at: info@microwine.eu
Tom Gilbert Professor of Palaeogenomics Natural His-
tory Museum of Denmark
tgilbert@snm.ku.dk
Groningen 3PhD PDF OriginSpecies
Three PhD student or postdoc position are available at
the Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(formerly the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Studies), at the University of Groningen, The Nether-
lands. The positions are part of the VICI project 'Onthe origin of species assemblages' awarded to prof. Ram-
pal S. Etienne (r.s.etienne@rug.nl). The aim of this
program is twofold: 1. developing a fully stochastic,
dynamical, eco-evolutionary and data-friendly theory of
community assembly, and 2. testing and informing this
theory with model-oriented evolutionary experiments
and eld studies of both macro-organisms and micro-
organisms. The details of the positions can be found
here:
PhD position Theoretical eco-evolutionary assembly of
ecological communities <http://www.rug.nl/about-
us/work-with-us/job-opportunities/overview?details=-
00347-02S0004E9P&cat=phd >
Postdoc position Theoretical eco-evolutionary assembly
of ecological communities <http://www.rug.nl/about-
us/work-with-us/job-opportunities/overview?details=-
00347-02S0004EAP&cat=wp >
PhD or Postdoc position Simultaneous Esti-
mation and Selection of Species Diversica-
tion Models < http://www.tangram-tis.nl/-
10378/Vacatures/00347-02S0004EMP/Vacature-
PhD-or-Postdoc-Simultaneous-Estimation-and-
Selection-of-Species-Diversication?category=-
Groepspeciek%5FRUG%5FCategorie%2CGroepspeciek%5FRUG%5FCategorie2%21%21Categorie%21%21RUC%2EPROM
>
\Rampal S. Etienne" <r.s.etienne@rug.nl >
IMPRS UKiel EvolutionaryBiology
The International Max Planck Research School for Evo-
lutionary Biology is oering several PhD positions and
fellowships.
The graduate school is dedicated to highest level of
research and training in all areas of contemporary Evo-
lutionary Biology. It is a joint initiative of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, the University
of Kiel and the Helmholtz Center for Ocean Research
Kiel (GEOMAR). The school oers an internationally
competitive research environment with state of art facil-
ities. The participating groups are working on a broad
variety of scientic topics including molecular, behav-
ioral, theoretical and organismal approaches.
The graduate program starts with a rotation period
of three months followed by a PhD project of three
years including seminars, courses and workshops. The
language of the graduate school is English. Financial
support is provided throughout the program.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 29
To obtain further information about our PhD program
and application details please visit our website at http:/-
/www.evolbio.mpg/imprs . Well-motivated and highly-
qualied students from all countries are welcome to
apply. A Master of Science degree or a Diploma as
well as a strong interest in Evolutionary Biology and
exibility in the research project are prerequisites for
entering the program. We are looking forward to your
online application for a PhD fellowship in the beautiful
landscape of Northern Germany.
The deadline for applications is April 19, 2015. The
selection week will be held from June 22 - 26 and the
program itself starts on September 21, 2015.
Contact: Dr. Kerstin Mehnert, August-Thienemann-Str.
2, 24306 Pl on, Germany email: imprs@evolbio.mpg.de
phone: +49(0)4522 763 233
The coordinator Kerstin Mehnert
The steering committee Diethard Tautz, Hinrich Schu-
lenburg, Manfred Milinski and Thorsten Reusch
Natascha
Natascha Hasenkamp <hasenkamp@evolbio.mpg.de >
IZW Berlin 2
EvolutionaryDiseaseDynamics
Advertisement of vacancy
The Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
(IZW) in the Forschungsverbund Berlin e. V. (www.izw-
berlin.de) together with the Research Institute of
Wildlife Ecology (FIWI) at the University of Veteri-
nary Medicine, Vienna (www.vetmeduni.ac.at/wi), the
Weierstra Institute for Applied Analysis and Stochas-
tics (WIAS, www.wias-berlin.de), the Institut for Virol-
ogy of the Freie Unversit at Berlin (FU, www.vetmed.fu-
berlin.de) and the Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecol-
ogy and Inland Fisheries (IGB, www.igb-berlin.de) have
formed a consortium to implement the AQUAVIR
project funded by the Leibniz Association.
Water is required for life. We have accumulated evi-
dence suggesting it may be an overlooked viral vector.
In climatic zones with seasonally limited precipitation
such as east Africa and central Asia, animals congregate
at high densities at scarce water sources. We hypothe-
size that viruses shed in water in this ecological setting
would gain a tness advantage if they evolved traits
permitting the retention of their infectivity in water anda reduction in host specicity. The AQUAVIR project
will determine whether water is a signicant viral vector
and how viruses behave mechanistically in such settings,
and develop mathematical models to understand the
epidemiology and evolution of this phenomenon. We
therefore seek to ll the following positions:
- 2 doctoral positions in evolutionary disease ecology - 1
postdoc in molecular virology - 1 postdoc in mathemat-
ical modeling in epidemiology
Specically:
1 doctoral student in evolutionary disease ecology:
African waterholes (05/15) - IZW
1 doctoral student in evolutionary disease ecology: Asian
waterholes (06/15)
- IZW/FIWI Specic tasks: Determine the distribution,
persistence and species usage of water sources; determine
the eect of water source characteristics on virus pres-
ence; non-invasively determine if physiological stress is
correlated with virus excretion in potential host species;
analyse environmental DNA of water samples to com-
pare genetic diversity of potential viral host sequence
diversity obtained directly from animals compared to
their drinking sources.
Requirements: Veterinary degree or completed master's
/ diploma degree in biological sciences; clean driver's
licence; competence in statistical methods; ability to
work independently in challenging environments and
to interact with scientists from a wide variety of elds;
strong interest in wildlife, conservation and evolutionary
biology; a background in ecology, previous experience
with wildlife, experience in eld research and o-road
driving experience would be highly advantageous.
Position 05/15 will be supervised by Prof Alex Green-
wood (IZW Dept of Wildlife Diseases) and Dr Marion
L East (IZW Dept of Evolutionary Ecology), position
06/15 by Prof. Alex Greenwood and Prof. Christian
Walzer (FIWI).
1 Postdoc in molecular virology (07/15) - IZW/ FU
Specic tasks: Serological analysis of mammalian sam-
ples using species-specic viral peptide-based ELISA;
next generation sequence characterization of equine her-
pesviruses from water and animal samples; evolutionary
analysis of viral sequences obtained to determine phylo-
genetic aliations and estimate evolutionary dynamics
of viral populations, including evaluation for positive se-
lection on sequences relevant to virulence or stability in
water and/or novel recombination events that might in-
uence viral phenotype; viral mutagenesis to determine
whether positively selected sites or recombination events
identied in eld samples alter viral phenotype, e.g. vir-30 EvolDir April 1, 2015
ulence or stability; coordinate with two eld doctoral
students and a postdoc mathematical modeller.
Requirements: The successful candidate will have a com-
pleted doctoral degree, extensive experience in molecular
virology, a strong interest in wildlife, conservation and
evolutionary biology and interact with scientists from
a wide variety of elds. Previous experience in evolu-
tionary biology and next generation sequencing analysis
will be considered a major advantage.
The postdoc will be supervised by Prof. Alex Green-
wood (IZW) and Prof. Nikolaus Osterrieder (FU).
1 Postdoc in mathematical modeling in epidemiology
(08/15) - IZW/WIAS
Specic tasks: Develop and analyze epidemiological
models incorporating water as a viral vector, temporal
changes of water sources and interactions between dif-
ferent species; simulate individual-based models in the
ecological setting of the project.
Requirements: The successful candidate should have a
completed doctoral degree and be experienced in epi-
demiological modeling using probabilistic concepts. Can-
didates with a strong background in mathematical mod-
eling
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Kaust SaudiArabia UVBRadiation
Ph.D. and M.Sc. Fellowships Oered at KAUST Red
Sea Research Center
Ph.D. fellowships oered
Impacts of UVB Radiation on Red Sea biota
Ph.D. Thesis to be co-supervised by Profs. Susana
Agusti, Carlos M. Duarte and Christian R. Voolstra
The Red Sea is an ultraoligotrophic environment charac-
terized by highly transparent waters to damaging UVB
radiation along with very high temperatures. Recent ev-
idence suggests that Red Sea biota is highly vulnerable
to UVB radiation, which is exacerbated by high tem-
perature. However, UVB impacts has yet been assessed
only for zooplankton and picoautotrophs. This project
will characterize the impacts of UVB radiation on keyRed Sea biota, encompassing keystone species in benthic
(such as seagrass and corals) and pelagic (such as phyto
and zooplankton and meroplankton) habitats. It will do
so through eld observations and eld and laboratory
experiments assessing impacts of UV radiation at multi-
ple levels: molecular, cellular, physiological, organismal,
holobiont and population levels. The project will also
assess complex interactions mediated by UV for selected
model species, including UV-driven constraints on or-
ganismal life history mediated by ontogenetic variability
in their vulnerability to UV radiation as well as possi-
ble benets of UV radiation on Red Sea biota driven
by antagonistic eects resulting from UV impacts on
pathogens, parasites and predators.
Key qualications (in addition to general KAUST re-
quirements, see below): Prior research experience ideally
including publications in international journals, SCUBA
diving, solid underpinnings in marine and molecular
ecology.
Impacts of dust deposition on Red Sea microbial commu-
nities Ph.D. Thesis to be co-supervised by Profs. Carlos
M. Duarte and Dr. Jesus M. Arrieta
The Red Sea is an ultraoligotrophic environment char-
acterized by blooms of the nitrogen-xing cyanobac-
teria Trichodesmiun sp.. These blooms appear to be
associated to events of dust deposition. However, dust
deposition, , a major feature of the Red Sea, is expected
to have profound consequenecs on Red Sea biota, as
it also delivers nutrients, organic carbon, pollutants
and air-borne microbes. This project will characterize
the inputs of elements and microorganisms associated
with dust deposition and will assess their impacts on
Red Sea microbial communities and the biogeochemical
dynamics of this ecosystem.
Key qualications (in addition to general KAUST re-
quirements, see below): Prior research experience ideally
including publications in international journals, solid
underpinnings in marine biogeochemistry and molecular
ecology.
Seagrass ecology and ecosystem functions in the Red
Sea Ph.D. Thesis supervised by Prof. Carlos M. Duarte
Seagrass are angiosperms adapted to life in the sea, form-
ing productive and valuable ecosystems across the world.
The Red Sea contains, in particular, dense multispecic
seagrass meadows. However, there has been remarkably
little research eort focused on Red Sea seagrass, largely
restricted to the species composition and some aspects
such as their value as sources of natural products and
photosynthetic rates. Yet,seagrass represent arguably
the most abundant higher plant vegetation in the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia. This Ph.D. project aims at llingApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 31
the current gap in the ecology of seagrass meadows in
the Red Sea while, at the same time, contributing to
further our understanding of seagrass ecology in general.
In particular, the goals of this research project include:
(a) assessing patterns in the distribution and community
structure of seagrass meadows in the Saudi coast of the
Red Sea; (b) quantifying primary production of Red
Sea seagrass meadows and the ux of carbon supporting
their role as sources of carbon to the food web, carbon
(as well as metal, pollutant, nitrogen and phosphorus)
sinks as well as their roles as habitat. In addition we
will the eect of seagrass meadows on the carbonate
system as well as the rates of carbonate production in
Red Sea seagrass meadows as well as their capacity to
raise the seaoor, thereby sheltering coastlines from the
impacts associated with sea level rise.
Key qualications (in addition to general KAUST re-
quirements, see below): Prior research experience ideally
including publications in international journals, SCUBA
diving, solid underpinnings in marine and molecular
ecology.
Connectivity and gene ow across Seagrass and Man-
grove populations in the Red Sea Ph.D. Thesis co-
supervised by Prof. Carlos M. Duarte and Prof. Ester
Serrao (Univ. of Algarve, Portugal)
Seagrass and mangroves angiosperms form dense stands
along the Red Sea. However, these stands are scattered
and often separated by considerable distances, so the
extent of gene ow along these system may be restricted
and is not know. Moreover, the Red Sea coast spans,
along its more than 1,000 Km, a broad range of climatic
and productivity regimes. Limited
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
KLIVV Vienna
FishBreedingSystems
Within the project \Ecological constraints of sh breed-
ing systems" funded by the Austrian Science Fund
(FWF) a three-year PhD student position is available
at the Konrad Lorenz Institute of Ethology (KLIVV) at
the University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna. The PhD
candidate will work on the hormonal basis of parentalcare behavior, induced polygyny or egg cannibalism.
The denite subject of the PhD project will depend on
the candidate ^As qualications and interests.
We are looking for a highly motivated, outstanding
student with a background in behavioral ecology: ex-
perimental design, hands-on work with live animals and
good statistical skills (if possible including R) are a
prerequisite. Experience in hormone analyses is a plus.
Excellent written and oral communication skills in En-
glish and the ability to work in a team are a must, a
MSc degree (or equivalent) in a related discipline (e.g.,
zoology, evolution, ecology, biology) is expected.
The PhD candidate will be mainly supervised by Dr.
Franziska C. Sch adelin and Priv.-Doz. Dr. Richard H.
Wagner, but the student is also expected to interact with
Prof. Sigal Balshine and her group in Hamilton/Canada,
including short visits at the collaborating laboratory
abroad.
As a part of the Department of Integrative Biology and
Evolution of the University of Veterinary Medicine Vi-
enna, the KLIVV oers an international and stimulating
research environment. The successful PhD candidate
will join the University ^As PhD-program. Vienna is a
highly attractive city in beautiful surroundings, with
a multicultural population and many educational and
recreational opportunities.
The gross salary is at around 28.000 Euro per year be-
fore tax (\Bruttogehalt"), including social and health
security according to the personal costs provided by the
Austrian Science Fund.
Please send your application including motivation
for the position, CV, and two reference letters
including the contact information of referees to
franziska.schaedelin@vetmeduni.ac.at. The PhD project
will start in autumn 2015. Applications received until
20^th April will be given full consideration.
See www.vetmeduni.ac.at/klivv and http:/-
/www.vetmeduni.ac.at/de/klivv/ueber-uns/-
unser-team/lemmel-schaedelin-franziska/; for
more detailed information. Please contact
franziska.schaedelin@vetmeduni.ac.at for any fur-
ther information and questions.
Franziska Lemmel-Sch adelin
<franziska.schaedelin@lemmel.at >32 EvolDir April 1, 2015
LaurentianU 2 WildlifeEvolution
1) Ph.D. Position in Boreal Ecology-Moose Ecology,
Monitoring & Modelling- Biology, Laurentian University,
Sudbury, ON, CANADA-requires solid statistical skills,
Contact-Dr. Frank F. Mallory, (fmallory@laurentian.ca).
2) M.Sc. Position-Owl Ecology, Biology, Laurentian
University, Sudbury, ON, CANADA-requires solid sta-
tistical skills, Contact-Dr. Frank F. Mallory, (fmal-
lory@laurentian.ca).
Frank Mallory <fmallory@laurentian.ca >
LeibnizInst Berlin
PleistoceneImmunoDiversity
Job advertisement:
The Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
(IZW) in Berlin is Germany's premier wildlife re-
search institute, one of eight research institutes in the
Forschungsverbund Berlin e. V., a member of the Leib-
niz Association and jointly funded by the German federal
and state governments. The IZW focuses on the life
histories and mechanisms of evolutionary adaptations of
mammals, their limits and their conservation in natural
and anthropogenically inuenced environments. The
institute operates within the elds of wildlife health
and diseases, reproductive biology and medicine, and
evolutionary ecology and genetics.
The Department of Wildlife Diseases oers (beginning
June 1, 2015) a PhD-Position on \Measuring immuno-
genetic diversity during the Pleistocene"
This project will utilize novel next generation sequenc-
ing approaches to characterize the evolution of immuno-
genetic loci over a ca. 50,000 year time span in species
with contrasting demographic histories (extinct woolly
mammoths and muskoxen).We expect to determine the
rate of evolution, persistence and replacement of Toll-
Like Receptor (TLR) and Major Histocompatibility
locus (MHC) alleles for both species which will provide
a better understanding of the evolutionary dynamics of
the loci that cannot be obtained from examination of
modern DNA.Specic tasks include - Development of hybridization
capture assays coupled with next generation sequencing
for the MHC and TLRs - Bioinformatic and evolutionary
genetic analysis of generated data - Logistical coordina-
tion of work between Canada, Denmark and Germany
Requirements - Diploma or Master of Science in Biology
or related elds; - Strong background in evolutionary
biology and phylogenetics; - Preference will be given to
candidates with ancient DNA or forensic DNA experi-
ence; - Preference will also be given to candidates with
next generation sequencing experience; - A background
in statistics and bioinformatics would be advantageous;
- Organizational skills and ability to work in a team; -
Part of the project will take place in Canada. Thus,
prociency in English (speaking and writing) is required
The position is initially limited to two years, June 1,
2015, with the possibility for extension to a maximum
of three years. The reimbursement occurs according
to TV oD (65%). The IZW is an equal opportunity
employer. Applications from women are strongly en-
couraged. Preference will be given to disabled appli-
cants with the same qualications. For further infor-
mation please contact Prof. Alex Greenwood (e-mail
greenwood@izw-berlin.de).
Applicants should submit a letter explaining their in-
terests in and particular skills for this position, a CV,
copies of relevant degrees and contact details of two
people who can provide a reference before April 7th,
2015 via the IZW's online-job-market (button \Apply
online").
Von: personal Gesendet: Mittwoch, 4. M arz 2015 20:59
An: Vollberg, Stephanie Betre: evoldir
\Vollberg, Stephanie" <vollberg@izw-berlin.de >
LundU Sweden SocialEvolution
The evolution of sex and society
It is now widely established that selection on sexual be-
haviour has profound eects on the evolutionary transi-
tions to cooperative societies in which individuals forego
the pursuit of selsh reproduction to help others. For ex-
ample, cooperative breeding and eusociality have been
shown to be more likely to evolve when groups are
founded by monogamous females. However, it is cur-
rently unclear how the evolution of cooperation is in-
uenced by selection on sexual behaviour other than
female promiscuity. This PhD position will explore theApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 33
relationship between sexually selected behaviour and
cooperation using a combination of phylogenetic compar-
ative analyses, eld tests, experimental manipulations
of social groups, and quantitative genetic and genomic
analyses. The comparative component of this project
will mainly be focused on birds, but with the potential
to examine other taxonomic groups, and the eldwork
will be conducted on populations of ostriches,Struthio
camelus, in Africa.
Eligibility
Students with basic eligibility for third-cycle studies are
those who- have completed a second-cycle degree- have
completed courses of at least 240 credits, of which at
least 60 credits are from second-cycle courses, or- have
acquired largely equivalent knowledge in some other
way, in Sweden or abroad.
In particular the candidate should have:
1. A BSc or MSc in Biology, or closely related eld,
with a background in evolutionary theory and ecology.
2. Practical experience of measuring social behaviour
and conducting eldwork in remote and dicult environ-
ments with knowledge of birds being an advantage. 3.
Experience of molecular genetics and laboratory work as
well as basic skills in bioinformatics. 4. A good under-
standing of statistics both practically and conceptually.
5. Excellent spoken and written English.
Basis of Assessment
The employment of doctoral students is regulated in the
Swedish Code of Statues 1998: 80. Only those who are
or have been admitted to PhD-studies may be appointed
to doctoral studentships. When an appointment to a
doctoral studentship is made, the ability of the student
to benet from PhD-studies shall primarily be taken
into account. In addition to devoting themselves to their
studies, those appointed to doctoral studentships may
be required to work with educational tasks, research and
administration, in accordance with specic regulations
in the ordinance.
More specically, we are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with a strong scientic curiosity that has pre-
viously demonstrated the ability to conduct high quality
scientic research. In line with this, candidates will be
evaluated using the following criteria:
1. The ability to work independently, formulate and
solve scientic problems. 2. The relevance and quality
of qualications, experience and publications and/or
degree projects. 3. The clarity of written and oral com-
munication. ^ a 4. The scientic quality and feasibility of
the research plan (See below).
To facilitate assessment candidates are required to sub-mit, together with their application, a motivational
letter of why they want to do a PhD in ecology and
evolution (1/2 page max), and a brief research plan
outlining a topic they are interested in, why this is im-
portant and how the ideas presented can be tested (max
1 page).
Informal enquiries are welcome.
Deadline for applying: 30th March 2015
Charlie Cornwallis Lund University
Web: https://lu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:59750/where:4/ charlie.cornwallis@biol.lu.se
MichiganTechU Watermilfoil
PopulationGenetics
We have two Graduate Research Assistantships avail-
able for two graduate students (MS/PhD) to work on
the population genetics and community ecology of in-
vasive watermilfoil in Michigan waterways funded by
the Michigan Invasive Species Grants Program. One
student will focus on the genetics (microsatellites) and
patterns of hybridization with native watermilfoil in re-
lation to herbicide resistance, and one student will focus
on understanding the ecology of invaded and treated
communities within various waterways to help under-
stand the eects of the invasive and its control, and
design and implement management practices to better
control invasive watermilfoil. Students will collaborate
with each other and other members of a multifaceted
team that includes university researchers, community
and state agencies, and private and corporate interest
groups.
Minimal qualications include a background in ecology,
evolution, invasive species, and/or population genetics
(through coursework OR research positions) and a grow-
ing interest in these elds. A strong academic record,
evidence of excellent written and analytical skills, and
enthusiasm for eld and laboratory research will be
highly favored.
Interested persons should contact Dr. Erika Hersch-
Green (eherschg@mtu.edu) and/or Dr. Casey Huckins
(*cjhuckin@mtu.edu*) by email and include a CV, a
statement of interest in the research assistantship and
their research interests in general, and the names of
three references. Suitable candidates will then be con-
tacted for an interview to discuss projects and reference34 EvolDir April 1, 2015
letters will be requested. Invited students will need to
submit a formal application to the graduate school at
Michigan Technological University.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until April 15th or until the positions are lled.
Erika Hersch-Green Department of Biological Sciences
Michigan Technological University 1400 Townsend Drive
Houghton, MI 49931 Oce: 906-487-3351 Fax: 906-487-
3167
Erika Hersch-Green <eherschg@mtu.edu >
NewcastleU 2 PlantAdaptation
The School of Biology has an exciting opportunity for a
PhD studentship, starting Oct 2015. The strongest stu-
dent applying to any of the eight proposed plant-based
projects will be given the RB Cook studentship. The
studentship covers fees and maintenance for UK/EU
students.
Two of the proposed projects are in the area of evolu-
tion and ecology, complementing ongoing research in
the research group of Kirsten Wol.
Living on the edge: can adaptation at the edge of a
species range accommodate rapid climatic change in
a long-lived species? http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/adaptation.htm Genetic diver-
sity and evolution of nuclear restorer genes in gynodioe-
cious Plantago species http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/plantago.htm For how to ap-
ply: http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/study/postgrad/-
phds.htm Deadline: 20 March 2015.
Further enquiries about these two projects: please email
with kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evolutionary Genetics New-
castle University, School of Biology Devonshire Building
5th oor Newcastle NE1 7RU, UK Phone: 0191 2084852
(internally 84852) email: kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
www.sta.ncl.ac.uk/kirsten.wol/ http://-
research.ncl.ac.uk/tiliageneticsresearch/ Kirsten
Wol <kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk >NewcastleU PlantAdaptation
DEADLINE EXTENDED:
The School of Biology has an exciting opportunity for a
PhD studentship, starting Oct 2015. The strongest stu-
dent applying to any of the eight proposed plant-based
projects will be given the RB Cook studentship. The
studentship covers fees and maintenance for UK/EU
students.
Two of the proposed projects are in the area of evolu-
tion and ecology, complementing ongoing research in
the research group of Kirsten Wol.
Living on the edge: can adaptation at the edge of a
species range accommodate rapid climatic change in
a long-lived species? http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/adaptation.htm Genetic diver-
sity and evolution of nuclear restorer genes in gynodioe-
cious Plantago species http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/plantago.htm For how to ap-
ply: http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/study/postgrad/-
phds.htm EXTENDED DEADLINE: 27 March 2015.
Further enquiries about these two projects: please email
with kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evolutionary Genetics New-
castle University, School of Biology Devonshire Building
5th oor Newcastle NE1 7RU, UK Phone: 0191 2084852
(internally 84852) email: kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
www.sta.ncl.ac.uk/kirsten.wol/ http://-
research.ncl.ac.uk/tiliageneticsresearch/ Kirsten
Wol <kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk >
Portugal Biodiversity
APPLICATIONS FOR SCHOLARSHIPS jUNIVER-
SITY OF PORTO CALL FOR TWO BIODIV
PROJECTS
The Doctoral Programme in Biodiversity, Genetics and
Evolution (BIODIV) invites applications for two schol-
arships under the following specic projects:
Project 1: Optimising global biodiversity conservation
priorities in a changing world.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 35
Project 2: The genetic basis of divergent vocalizations
in singing birds.
The scholarships are funded by FCT (http://-
www.fct.pt/index.phtml.en) - Portuguese Foundation
for Science and Technology. The call for applications is
open between 10 and 27 of April 2015.
Information about the programme and on ^ aHow to ap-
ply' is available at www.biodiv.pt . Best regards, Maria
Sant'Ana E: applications@biodiv.pt T: + 351 252 660
411 F: + 351 252 661 780
CIBIO Divulga c ~A$o
QUT Brisbane Australia
MammalEvolution
PhD Scholarship in mammal evolution, integrating ge-
nomics and palaeontology
The vertebrate evolution group at Queensland Univer-
sity of Technology (Brisbane, Australia) is oering a
PhD scholarship to combine genomics and palaeontol-
ogy, to resolve the origins of placentals, marsupials and
monotremes. The candidate will be a central part of
a project based at QUT that is developing methods
for integrating molecular, fossil and ecological data to
trace evolutionary history. You will work with an in-
ternationally recognized team of researchers, including
collaborators in Australia, France and the UK. Depend-
ing of the candidate's skills and interests there will be
capacity to tailor the project towards genomic, compu-
tational or more palaeontological aspects.
* Starting May-July 2015 and open to Australian & Inter-
national applicants. * Annual stipend $25,849 (tax free).
* Applications close 29 March * Location: QUT's Gar-
dens Point Campus, which is in the centre of Brisbane,
nestled between the Brisbane River and the Botanic
Gardens.
Expected outcomes include improved dating of evolu-
tionary events, and a novel statistical framework for
analysing morphological data, to more accurately merge
fossils into the tree of life. In turn, the PhD project
aims to better understand the roles of competition and
environmental change in mammalian diversication and
extinction.
Eligibility Criteria:
- Bachelor degree with Honours 1 or 2A, or equivalent
from a recognised institution. In judging equivalence,QUT may consider previous study, relevant research
and work experience, research publications, and refer-
ees' reports. - Strong quantitative skills. - English
language uency. - Non-essential (desirable): experi-
ence in either morphometrics, phylogenetics or other
bioinformatics. - Non-essential (desirable): experience
in computer coding/programming, especially in bioin-
formatics or phylogenetics.
To Apply, submit your CV, the names and con-
tact details for two referees, and a brief statement
addressing the eligibility criteria to Matt Phillips
(m9.phillips@qut.edu.au).
enquiries to Matt Phillips m9.phillips@qut.edu.au +61 7
3138 4805 http://www.mphillipsbiol.com The vertebrte
evolution group at QUT is within the School of Earth,
Environmental and Biological Sciences (in the Science
and Engineering Faculty).
Further details: http://www.mphillipsbiol.com/-
contacts{vacancies.html Matthew Phillips
<m9.phillips@qut.edu.au >
Rennes UWuerzburg
FishEvolutionSex
Evolution of sex determining regulatory networks
Sex can be determined by a plethora of mechanisms
and the dierent mechanisms do not follow a phyloge-
netic pattern. Moreover sex determination is highly
variable, sometimes even among closely related groups
of organisms. The current understanding is that the
primary signal, which triggers the genetic sex determi-
nation cascade, diers between the various groups of
organisms, while the downstream regulatory network
remained evolutionarily highly conserved. Our recent
results and a detailed re-examination of previous work
indicate however, that also downstream of the primary
sex determiner a great variety of molecular mechanisms
exist. This is in stark contrast to the molecular control
of other vertebrate organ systems. So far, no explana-
tion has been oered how such a variety in the molecular
pathways of sexual development is possible and why it
exists. Teleost sh show a particular wide variety of
sex determination mechanisms were even sister species
can have totally dierent modes how the male vs female
decision during embryogenesis is made. We use sh
of the genus Oryzias (medakas and related species) as
models to approach three major questions:36 EvolDir April 1, 2015
1.) Are dierent SD mechanisms triggering the same,
related or totally specic molecular pathways during the
process of the fate dierentiation of the gonad anlage?
2.) How stable are SD mechanisms in evolutionary
terms?
3.) What is the evolutionary meaning of the high vari-
ability of sex determination mechanisms?
The PhD project will focus on the identication of
chromosomal sex determination mechanisms in dierent
species of the genus and a comparative molecular char-
acterization of regulatory interactions of a known sex
determining genetic network from the medaka Oryzias
latipes in related species with similar or divergent sex de-
termining mechanisms. On the methodological level the
project will include up to date new sequencing technolo-
gies (RAD-tags, RNA-seq, ChIP-seq) and the tool-box
for functional analyses in evolutionary developmental bi-
ology (in-vivo bioimaging, conventional transgenesis and
genome editing by CRISPR/Cas9). The PhD project
is embedded in a binational collaboration between the
INRA institute for Fish physiology and Genomics in
Rennes, France and the Biocenter of the University in
Wuerzburg, Germany. The PhD student will be enrolled
at the International Graduate School of Wuerzburg and
work at both locations according to the experimental
plan during the progress of the project.
For more details and practical information, please con-
tact: Dr. Amaury Herpin (aherpin@rennes.inra.fr)
at Rennes and Prof. Dr. Manfred Schartl
(phch1@biozentrum.uni-wuerzburg.de) at Wuerzburg.
Amaury Herpin <amaury.herpin@rennes.inra.fr >
TulaneU EvolutionaryBiol
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department at
Tulane University supports a one year non-thesis Mas-
ter's degree program designed for students planning
to enter more advanced professional degree programs
(e.g., law, public health, medicine, veterinary medicine,
natural resources management) and for students intent
on pursuing additional academic training (e.g., Ph.D.
degree programs). The program also will be useful for
students interested in seeking employment with environ-
mental agencies of federal, state, and municipal govern-
ment; non-governmental organizations; and in private
industry, including environmental consulting rms.
The Plus One MS degree program is intended to pro-vide foundational and advanced academic training in
Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Organismal Biology, and
related disciplines. The program involves completion
of coursework and recommended completion of an inde-
pendent study with departmental faculty (see: http://-
tulane.edu/sse/eebio/faculty-and-sta/faculty/) or an
internship with an approved o-campus organization.
The opportunity to undertake independent study or to
accrue on-the-job training with a governmental agency
or private entity through an internship lends a unique
character to this program and may provide students an
advantage when seeking employment following gradua-
tion.
Tulane Universityis a member of the prestigious Asso-
ciation of American Universities, a select group of the
62 leading research universities in the United States
and Canada with 'preeminent programs of graduate and
professional education and scholarly research.' Tulane is
located in the historic Gulf Coast city of New Orleans,
which is known for its culture, food and music.
Applications are due May 1.Those interested in
the program are encouraged to contact the pro-
gram adviser (Dr. Richards-Zawacki, cori@tulane.edu
<mailto:cori@tulane.edu >) or any faculty member
whose research is of interest. More information can
be found at http://tulane.edu/sse/eebio/academics/-
graduate/plus-one-ms.cfm Elizabeth Derryberry, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor Ken and Ruth Arnold Early Career
Professor in Earth & Ecological Science Department of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Tulane University New
Orleans, LA 70118 504-862-8285 (oce) 504-862-8706
(fax) elizabethderryberry.tulane.edu
ederrybe@tulane.edu
UAberdeen InsectNicheEvolution
Title: Niche Evolution in wild or lab-reared insects (U.
of Aberdeen, UK)
I am seeking talented and motivated PhD students to in-
vestigate evolutionary causes and consequences of ecolog-
ical niche divergence during adaptive radiations, range
shifts, or in response to anthropogenic habitat modica-
tion.
The student may choose to conduct eldwork with wild
or pest insect species in Northeast Scotland, or can ap-
ply their ideas in mesocosm experiments using lab-bred
insects such as seed beetles (Callosobruchus maculates).April 1, 2015 EvolDir 37
See http://lancasterlab.weebly.com for ongoing projects
in the laboratory, and contact Lesley Lancasterlesleylan-
caster@abdn.ac.uk to express interest in joining the lab.
Together, we will brainstorm a project idea that ts
with the ongoing work in my lab and with your unique
research goals.
Research training: The student will be provided with
all relevant research training.
Essential background required by the student: First /
second undergraduate degree (or equivalent), or masters
degree with commendation/distinction.
Link to the project: http://www.abdn.ac.uk/-
clsm/graduate/research-areas/niche-evolution.php
To apply online: http://www.abdn.ac.uk/clsm/-
graduate/research-areas/biological-and-environmental-
sciences.php APPLICATIONS DUE: 30th April
2015.
It is advised to email Lesley Lancaster (lesleylan-
caster@abdn.ac.uk) with informal inquiries prior to ap-
plying online.
*KEY DETAILS*: This project advert is for a
competitively-funded scheme for a limited number of El-
phinstone PhD Scholarships (http://www.abdn.ac.uk/-
clsm/graduate/elphinstone-phd-scholarships.php).
These scholarships are available to students of any
nationality, and will cover all tuition and fees associated
with pursuing a PhD at the University of Aberdeen.
Living expenses are not covered in the scholarship,
however, and thus applicants should be prepared to
contribute approximately $45,000 pounds to cover
living expenses for the duration of their PhD. It is not
advised to take on part time work during an intensive
PhD-ship, so ideal candidates are those with sucient
means to cover their expenses for the duration of their
studies.
Lesley Lancaster, PhD University of Aberdeen School
of Biological Sciences Zoology Building, Tillydrone Ave.
Aberdeen AB24 2TZ lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk +44
01224 274551 http://lancasterlab.weebly.com The Uni-
versity of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scot-
land, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar Dheathain
na charthannas cl araichte ann an Alba, Air. SC013683.
\Lancaster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >UAdelaide
GenomicEvolutionAncientDNA
PhD positions in animal palaeogenomics and epige-
nomics at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA
(ACAD), Adelaide, Australia
We are currently conducting a number of projects inves-
tigating the genomic evolution of large mammals during
periods of rapid environmental change occurring dur-
ing the late Pleistocene and the Holocene (supported
by Australian Research Council grants DP140104233,
LP130100646, and FL140100260). Key aims of these
projects are to:
- Resolve the evolutionary history of living and ex-
tinct megafaunal species - Characterise demographic
responses of animal populations to past environmental
change - Explore hybridisation, extinction and specia-
tion events to better understand how ancestral genetic
diversity is distributed among surviving populations -
Study the process of selection through time at the ge-
nomic scale, and investigate relationships between the
strength and direction of selection and environmental
variables - Examine the role that epigenetic modica-
tions play in facilitating rapid adaptation to environ-
mental changes
Study species include a range of mammals, predom-
inantly ungulates and carnivorans, for which ACAD
already possesses a large collection of sub-fossil material.
In addition, there is scope within these projects for col-
lecting new specimens from museums and directly from
the eld. For example, we recently collected deep-frozen
bison bones from Canadian gold mines to complement
our existing collection of bovid specimens. See blog
posts at:
- http://acadadelaide.wordpress.com/2014/08/09/-
digging-up-frozen-bones-in-gold-mines/ - https://-
acadadelaide.wordpress.com/2015/02/05/a-gold-mine-
within-a-gold-mine/ Multiple positions are available
and are open to both international and domestic
students. Applicants should have interest and a record
of exceptional academic achievement in at least one of
the following areas: ancient DNA, evolutionary biology,
bioinformatics, or molecular biology. The projects
will suit hard-working and motivated candidates who
can demonstrate independent thinking and good
communication skills. Training will focus on the
generation and analysis of Next Generation Sequencing38 EvolDir April 1, 2015
data, with potential for eldwork and opportunities
to gain skills in both molecular biology laboratory
techniques and bioinformatics.
ACAD collaborates with a team of high-prole inter-
national researchers from Europe and the USA, and
successful applicants will be co-supervised by Prof. Alan
Cooper, Dr Bastien Llamas and Dr Julien Soubrier at
ACAD, School of Biological Sciences, University of Ade-
laide. For more information about ACAD, check out
http://en.gravatar.com/acadadelaide for links to Twit-
ter, Facebook, our blog, recent publications and the
ocial website.
Interested applicants are encouraged to send a
resume, a cover letter, and the contact de-
tails of three referees to Dr Bastien Llamas (
bastien.llamas@adelaide.edu.au) and Dr Julien Soubrier
( julien.soubrier@adelaide.edu.au). The next application
round is in April 2015.
Both the Australian Department of Immigration and
University of Adelaide expect international applicants
to meet the English Language Prociency (ELP)
requirements. The ELP is based on high scores
in IELTS (International English Language Testing
System) or TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign
Language). For further information please refer to
http://international.adelaide.edu.au/apply/admission/
. Competitive scholarships are available via the
University of Adelaide Graduate Centre for domestic
( https://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/research/) and international students
( http://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/research-international/opportunities/).
{ Bastien Llamas, PhD ARC Senior Research Associate
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA Department of
Genetics and Evolution School of Biological Sciences
The University of Adelaide South Australia 5005
AUSTRALIA Ph: +61 (0)8 8313 5565 jFax: +61
(0)8 8313 4364 jMob: +61 (0)411 539 426 E-
mail: bastien.llamas@adelaide.edu.au Web: https:/-
/www.adelaide.edu.au/directory/bastien.llamas For
more information about ACAD, check out our Gravatar
<http://en.gravatar.com/acadadelaide >web page for
links to [image:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUAmsterdam MiteGenomics
PhD position in Evolutionary Biology University of Am-
sterdam - Faculty of Science - Institute for Biodiversity
and Ecosystem Dynamics
We have a PhD position available to study the ecoge-
nomics of host race formation in spider mites. Spider
mites are important crop pests with a remarkable evo-
lutionary potential to adapt to a vast array of dierent
host plants, including more than 1000 dierent plant
species. However, the factors that determine such an
enormous host plant range have not yet been uncovered.
The project aims to uncover the genetic determinants
of plant adaptation in a generalist mite species by sev-
eral complementary approaches. Specic detoxication
enzyme families recently uncovered in the genome se-
quences will be studied in silico and in vitro. Using
an experimental evolution set-up, mites are allowed to
adapt to several novel host plant species and pheno-
typically characterized. Population-level bulk segregant
mapping will be used to uncover genomic regions (genes)
associated with adaptation. Adaptation and speciation
in a natural habitat will be studied to determine the
eects of adaptation in the context of speciation and
gene ow in nature.
The Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynam-
ics is one of eight research institutes of the Faculty of
Science at the University of Amsterdam. The institute
covers a wide range of subjects in both fundamental
and applied research. Our scientic studies aim at a
better understanding of the dynamics of ecosystems at
all relevant levels, from genes to climate change, using
a truly multidisciplinary approach.
Requirements MSc in biology, biotechnology or agricul-
tural sciences. Experience with experimental approaches
relevant to the project, such as current techniques in
molecular biology is recommended. Ability to work on
a multidisciplinary topic in a multidisciplinary research
team.
For additional information, please contact: Dr. Thomas
Van Leeuwen (T.B.S.VanLeeuwen@uva.nl) Dr. Hans
Breeuwer ( J.A.J.Breeuwer@uva.nl)
Appointment The position will start preferably 01-MAY-
2015, but is exible. The full-time appointment will be
on a temporary basis for a maximum period of 4 years.
Initial appointment will be for a period of 18 monthsApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 39
and after satisfactory evaluation it will be extended for
a total duration of 4 years. The full-time gross monthly
salary will range from 2,125 in the rst year to 2,717
in the nal year, according to the Dutch salary scales
for PhD candidates. The Collective Labour Agreement
Dutch Universities is applicable. The annual salary
will be increased by 8 % holiday allowance and 8.3 %
end-of-year bonus.
Job application Applications should include a detailed
CV, a motivation letter, and the names and contact
addresses of two references from which information
about the candidate can be obtained. Applications
should be sent before 01-MARCH-2015 to application-
science@uva.nl. Please quote vacancy number in the
subject eld. Interviews will be held 17 and 18 April
2015.
J.A.J.Breeuwer@uva.nl J.A.J.Breeuwer@uva.nl
UBern PlantHerbivoreInteractions
PhD in Plant-Herbivore Interactions (Switzerland)
Herbivores and their natural enemies have a profound
impact on plant growth and yield. A major aim in plant
biology is, therefore, to understand the factors that inu-
ence herbivore damage and predation by higher trophic
levels in order to improve ecosystem management and
pest control strategies. This project investigates the
dynamics of plant herbivore natural enemy interactions
in the rhizosphere, with a focus on plant toxins and cli-
mate change. The successful candidate will work on the
interaction between maize, its most important herbivore
pest Diabrotica virgifera and entomopathogenic nema-
todes as promising biocontrol agents. Using analytical,
molecular and ecological approaches, he/she will inves-
tigate how plant secondary metabolites inuence the
interaction, and how soil abiotic factors that are likely to
be altered by climate change aect the dierent players
of the system. The PhD project is closely associated
with the Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research
(OCCR), a world-leading institution in climate sciences.
We look for an enthusiastic PhD student with strong
interests in plant-herbivore interactions. Applicants
should have a rm background in one of the following
elds: Molecular biology, biochemistry, plant physiol-
ogy, analytical chemistry, entomology, ecology. All our
projects are highly integrative and require willingness
to embrace multiple disciplines within the domain of
plant- environment interactions. Excellent Universitygrades at the MSc. level are expected. Fluent spoken
and written English are prerequisites for this position.
We oer an inspiring research environment, including
state-of-the art research facilities, intensive supervision
and an exciting project of considerable fundamental
and applied relevance. The institute of Plant Sciences
is located at the shore of the river Aare, close to the
vibrant centre of the city of Bern. The PhD student
is paid according to University standard rates and will
benet from the courses oered by the Graduate School
of the OCCR (www.climatestudies.unibe.ch/graduate).
How to apply: Send a single pdf including a letter of mo-
tivation, a CV with University grades and the names and
addresses of two referees to matthias.erb@ips.unibe.ch.
The position is available immediately and will remain
open until lled.
Contact: Prof. Matthias Erb, Institute of Plant Sci-
ences, University of Bern, Altenbergrain 21, 3013 Bern,
Switzerland, matthias.erb@ips.unibe.ch.
Matthias Erb <matthias.erb@ips.unibe.ch >
UBristol MolecularConvergence
We are seeking PhD candidates for a funded PhD at the
University of Bristol.
Measuring and interpreting convergence in molecular
data
Supervisors: Davide Pisani (University of Bristol),
Matthew Wills (University of Bath), and Mark Wilkin-
son (The Natural History Museum, London)
Deadline for application: 31st March.
Informal inquiries: davide.pisani@bristol.ac.uk
Please Apply Online: http://www.bristol.ac.uk/-
earthsciences/courses/postgraduate/phd-research.html
In biology, convergent similarity is a form of correspon-
dence (e.g. between morphological features or of molec-
ular sequences/structures from dierent species) not
caused by common ancestry. Two species that display
a convergent feature therefore acquired it starting from
distinct ancestral features. At the least at the mor-
phological level convergence is generally considered a
consequence of evolutionary adaptation, and is generally
achieved in species that adapted to a common lifestyle.
An example is the evolution of ns in dolphins (mam-
mals) and ichthyosaurs (reptiles). Convergence happens40 EvolDir April 1, 2015
also at the molecular level and stricking examples have
been discovered in the prestin gene in bats and dolphins.
Prestin plays a key role in echolocation and convergence
of this molecule was achieved in these two echolocating
lineages. However, the extent to which convergence
aect molecular data is not clear, and the forces under-
pinning molecular convergence are often equally unclear.
Further on, how we should measure molecular conver-
gence is not fully clear. Sequence similarity should
obviously be included in the equation, but whether this
similarity should be weighted, for example based on the
phylogenetic distance between the considered species, is
not known. Yet this can signicantly impact our per-
ception of the pervasiveness of convergence in genomic
evolution.
Generally, evolutionary convergence is assumed to be
more common and more detailed in more closely related
species, simply because closely related species tend to
be more similar and tend to have more similar evolu-
tionary constraints and potentialities. Further to that,
it is often argued that molecular (i.e. genetic) data tend
to be less aected by homoplasy than morphological
data. We would argue that these expectations or be-
lieves are the closest thing we currently have to any
'Law of Convergence' and that a sensible and promising
way of investigating the importance of convergence and
its broader signicance is by testing these expectations.
If patterns of convergence are not so constrained and
data-dependent, this would provide a powerful novel
insight into the nature of evolutionary change.
This PhD project is part of a larger Templeton Founda-
tion founded research programme, the aim of which is
investigating the pervasiveness of convergence in biology
and its role in the process of adaptation. In specic,
the student working on this project will investigate how
to measure convergence in molecular data sets, and
investigate how common is molecular convergence.
In particular the student will: (1) develop measures to
quantify convergence and address the following ques-
tions. (2) How common is convergence in molecular
datasets? (2) Is molecular convergence more common
within specic lineages (e.g. mammals versus birds)?
(3) Are specic parts of the genome more prone to
convergent evolution (e.g. protein coding genes versus
regulatory non-coding sequences like microRNA)? (4)
Are alternative forms of the same data (e.g. amino
acid versus nucleotide sequences) dierently prone to
undergo convergent processes? (4) To what extent is
adaptive evolution underpinning the origin of molecular
convergences?
The project is entirely computational and will t a
mathematically-inclined student with some experiencein computer programming (or the will to learn about
computational methods and programming). You will
be based at the University of Bristol, in the newly built
'Life Sciences Building', where you will join the Palaeobi-
ology and Biodiversity Research Group. However, more
broadly, you will be the member of a diverse, Templeton
funded, research group spread between the University
of Bristol, Bath, and the Natural History Museum of
London, and interactions and visits to Bath and London
will be common.
Dr Davide Pisani Reader in Phylogenomics School of
Biological Sciences and School of Earth Sciences Univer-
sity of Bristol Life Sciences Building 24 Tyndall Avenue
Bristol, BS8 1TG Email: davide.pisani@bristol.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0) 117 39 41196
Davide Pisani <Davide.Pisani@bristol.ac.uk >
UBritishColumbia ConservGenetics
I am looking for a MSc student to join my research
team at The University of British Columbia (Okana-
gan Campus) to take part in a conservation genetic
study of a mammalian species at-risk. This opportunity
recently emerged and I am hoping to nd a highly moti-
vated graduate student to join the project in May/June
2015, although I will consider applicants that require a
September 2015 start date. The project oers opportu-
nities for both laboratory and eld-based research, and
direct collaboration with researchers and managers from
government and participating universities. Individuals
with a population genetics background and strong ana-
lytical skills are especially encouraged to apply. Prior
experience with molecular laboratory techniques and
working in a eld setting are desirable.
Visit the Ecological and Conservation Genomics labo-
ratory website (http://people.ok.ubc.ca/mirussel/) for
more information on our current research directions.
Additional information about our Biology graduate pro-
gram at UBC can be found at the following website:
http://biol.ok.ubc.ca/graduate.html . To apply, send
me via e-mail (michael.russello@ubc.ca) a CV, uno-
cial transcript, and contact information for at least two
references.
Dr. Michael Russello, Associate Professor Department
of Biology The University of British Columbia Okana-
gan Campus 3247 University Way, FIP346 Kelowna, BC
Canada V1V 1V7April 1, 2015 EvolDir 41
michael.russello@ubc.ca
UExeter
CellEvolutionPhylogenomics
We are seeking PhD candidates for a funded PhD at
the University of Exeter working on eukaryotic cell and
genome evolution. This award is funded through the
generous donation from the Lawrence Charitable Trust
and Mrs Carlotta Palmer and from the College of Life
and Environmental Sciences.
As a result of philanthropic gifts and with the aim of sup-
porting research into understanding complex systems
through interdisciplinary study and analysis of large
datasets, the University of Exeter is looking to recruit
a student to study for PhD starting in 2015. The ap-
pointed graduate researcher will be based in the research
team of Tom Richards who use 'omics' technologies to
understand the evolutionary history of complex cellular
life (i.e. the rise and diversication of the eukaryotes).
Due to the nature of this studentship and the unique
manner in which it is funded, applicants are encouraged
to identify and develop their own line of research within
the wider research aims of host laboratory. Currently,
the work of the host laboratory covers four areas:
1) Using environmental DNA analysis and single cell
genomics to understand the diversity of microbial life
and how this ts into the tree of life.
2) The role of horizontal gene transfer in the evolution
of pathogenic traits.
3) Understanding the nature and characteristic of the
last eukaryotic common ancestor.
4) Developing experimental model systems to study
cell-cell mutualistic interactions.
Candidates are encouraged to contact the supervisor
and discuss project topics of interest prior to making
an application at t.a.richards@exeter.ac.uk
Further information about the studentship applica-
tion can be found here: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/AKS525/the-lawrence-palmer-phd-studentship/
T.A.Richards@exeter.ac.ukUFlorida InsectEvolution
PHD Position in insect systematics and evolution- Uni-
versity of Florida
ASSISTANTSHIP AVAILABLE in the Lucky Lab at
the University of Florida. Research Focus: Insect sys-
tematics and biodiversity, ecology, population genetics,
evolution. Focus on ants is preferred, but not required.
Experience with the following is an asset: insect clas-
sication, collections management, morphological and
molecular systematics, bioinformatics, eldwork.
Qualications: * Demonstrated ability to complete
projects and publish results. * Master's degree in en-
tomology, ecology and evolutionary biology or relevant
biological science. Applicants with intellectual interest
in ants and evolutionary processes are encouraged to
apply. * Minimum GPA of 3.5 and competitive GRE
scores required. * Demonstrated ability to complete
projects and publish results. * Excellent written and
oral communication abilities.
Interested candidates should send CV, statement of
interest and names and contact information of three
references to alucky@u.edu with the subject header
PHD POSITION. Applications will be considered on a
rolling basis until position is lled; suggested submission
deadline is April 1. Start date in Fall 2015 or Jan 2016.
Dr. Andrea Lucky. University of Florida Entomol-
ogy/Nematology. Gainesville, FL 32611-0620, USA.
Email: alucky@u.edu. Website: www.andrealucky.com
Andrea Lucky, PhD Entomology/Nematology Univer-
sity of Florida Steinmetz Hall, Rm. 2108 970 Natural
Area Drive, PO Box 110620 Gainesville, FL 32611-0620
Phone: (352) 273-3952 Email: alucky@u.edu
alucky@u.edu
UHudderseld 5
EvolutionaryGenetics
THE UNIVERSITY OF HUDDERSFIELD: DEPART-
MENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, SCHOOL OF
APPLIED SCIENCES42 EvolDir April 1, 2015
The Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarship Centre in
Evolutionary Genomics
Supervisors: Professor Martin B. Richards, Dr Maria
Pala, Dr Ceiridwen Edwards, Dr Martin Carr, Dr Ste-
fano Vanin
Five PhD Studentships in Evolutionary Genomics
Closing date for applications: As soon as possible, and
no later than April 30th, 2015
Funding availability: Funded PhD projects for UK/EU
students
We are seeking the rst cohort of ve PhD scholars in
Evolutionary Genetics for the new Leverhulme Trust
Centre at Hudderseld, to begin in October 2015. The
scholars will receive training from leading experts in
their respective elds and undertake cutting-edge re-
search in archaeogenetics, palaeogenetics, bioinformatics,
genomics, next-generation DNA sequencing, phylogenet-
ics, population genetics, human evolution and forensic
analysis.
We envision openings this year in the archaeogenetics of
Europe, Southeast Asia/ Pacic and Native Americans,
in both humans and domestic animals, working with
mitochondrial DNA, Y-chromosome and genome-wide
variation (including ancient DNA), and in forensic anal-
ysis on molecular insect identication from South Amer-
ican and European archaeological burials. In eukaryotic
evolution, research work will include the evolution of
fungal genomes and transposable element families.
The students will work in the new molecular biol-
ogy/ancient DNA facilities at Hudderseld, alongside
existing students in all of these areas and two research
fellows who will provide day to day guidance, along with
the academic sta.
Applicants should hold a good rst degree (and prefer-
ably also an MSc or MA) in Genetics, Molecular Biology,
Statistics, Computing, Bioarchaeology, Biological An-
thropology, or other relevant subject, and ideally have
experience of generic biological lab techniques such as
DNA extraction and PCR. For the insect-related project,
a general knowledge of general entomology/zoology and
invertebrate morphology is required. Although training
and hands-on supervision will be provided, it is essential
that the candidates can operate independently and take
the initiative to direct their research.
The studentship will cover the full cost of tuition fees
for UK/EU students, and will pay an annual tax-free
bursary of $14,057 for three years (RCUK rates). There
are additional funds available for laboratory consum-
ables and travel for conferences, visits to collaborating
laboratories and sample procurement.To apply, please go to: http://halo.hud.ac.uk/-
pgronlineapps/ and complete the on-line application,
ensuring you select full-time PhD Biology. Please type
'Leverhulme Trust' in the 'Personal Statement' eld.
Please then email your CV, transcripts and two let-
ters of recommendation in support of your application
to Professor Richards (email: m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk).
Please indicate in your email which supervisor and kind
of project you are interested in, and why you believe
you are well-qualied for that project.
For informal enquiries please contact:
Archaeogenetics: Professor Richards on +44 (0)1484
471676 (email m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk) or Dr Maria
Pala on +44 1484 472273 (m.pala@hud.ac.uk)
Eukaryotic evolution: Dr Martin Carr on +44 (0)1484
471608 (m.carr@hud.ac.uk)
Forensic entomology/funerary archaeology: Dr Stefano
Vanin on +44 (0)1484 473179 (s.vanin@hud.ac.uk)
Related web links: http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/-
researchcentres/egrg/ http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/-
biologicalsciences/ http://www.examiner.co.uk/news/-
west-yorkshire-news/hudderseld-university-secures-1m-
funding-8557938 University of Hudderseld inspiring
tomorrow's professionals. [http://marketing.hud.ac.uk/-
HOSTED/EmailSig2014/EmailSigFooter.jpg] Martin
Richards <M.B.Richards@hud.ac.uk >
UMelbourne Insecticide Adaptation
A PhD project is available at The University of Mel-
bourne - School of BioSciences (Australia) to work with
Alex Fournier-Level and Charles Robin on the limit of
adaptation to insecticide in Drosophila melanogaster.
We are seeking highly motivated candidates to carry out
original research on the genetic basis of resistance in nat-
ural populations at the whole-genome scale. Candidates
should have a strong interest in population genetics and
a deep curiosity about evolution. Rigor and strong work
ethics are essential; interest in quantitative methods
would be a plus.
The Project:
Pesticides have imposed a dramatic selective pressure
on insect populations, leading to the emergence of nu-
merous sources of resistance. To preserve the ecacy
of insecticides against pests and disease vectors, it is
critical to understand the genetic basis of resistanceApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 43
mechanisms and test if resistance can be both general
and ecient without cost. The idea is that a resistance
alleles might have to be either targeting multiple insec-
ticides or be very ecient at resisting to one class only.
This will involve screening multiple natural populations
of D. melanogaster for multiple classes of insecticides,
applying genome-wide association methods and follow-
up candidates in functional assays (in collaboration
with Phil Batterham) as well as modeling their evolu-
tion within and among populations. In particular, we
ought to understand the degree of epistasis/functional
redundance between genes of the central nervous system
to keep it functioning when accumulating resistance m
utations.
The Funding:
The successful candidate will apply for a scholarship
package through the Faculty of Science, which provides a
tax-free annual stipend (current rate of AUD$25,392 p.a.,
equaling $973 per fortnight) and full waiver of tuition
fees for the three years of the doctoral program. The
successful student can further supplement their annual
income by contributing to the undergraduate teaching
classes and by acting as laboratory class demonstrators
and tutors. All research expenses will be covered, as
well as costs associated with all postgraduate coursework
and conference attendance.
The Environment
The University of Melbourne is the leading research uni-
versity in Australasia, and is internationally recognized
for excellence in research and teaching. The School of
BioSciences is a newly formed institution, proceeding
from the merging of the Departments of Botany, Zo-
ology and Genetics; providing a world-class research
environment in evolutionary biology, genomics and ecol-
ogy. The school harbors a collegiate graduate students
society, oering a very interactive and vibrant environ-
ment for the successful candidate. Further information
on the research programs including recent publications,
can be found at: www.adaptive-evolution.org To ap-
ply, please send a cover letter, a CV, academic tran-
scripts, and contact details for two academic references
to afournier@unimelb.edu.au or crobin@unimelb.edu.au
Informal inquiries are also welcome at the same ad-
dresses. Applicants must have completed a four-year
undergraduate degree, or Bachelors degree with honours,
or a masters degree by May 31 2015. Review of appli-
cations will begin immediately, and suitable candidates
will be contacted for phone interviews.
Alexandre Fournier-Level
School of BioSciencesThe University of Melbourne Royal Parade Parkville,
VIC 3010, Australia Ph: +61 3 8344 2362
website: http://www.adaptive-evolution.org alexan-
dre.fournier@unimelb.edu.au
UNewSouthWales LizardEvolution
PhD position studying lizard personality, learning and
metabolism at the University of New South Wales
Dr. Daniel Noble and A/Professor Shinichi Nakagawa
in the Evolution & Research Centre (E&ERC), at the
University of New South Wales (UNSW) are seeking a
highly motivated and enthusiastic student to study the
covariation between metabolism, personality and learn-
ing in a model Australian lizard system. The student
will join a newly formed lab group at UNSW and be
part of an exciting multidisciplinary team building links
between environmentally driven eects on phenotypic
variation and the consequences of these eects on tness.
The student will combine theory with extensive exper-
imental work manipulating incubation temperatures,
taking behavioural and physiological measures, and es-
tablishing controlled semi-natural breeding experiments
to obtain multigenerational data. They will use cutting
edge molecular (e.g. SNP genotyping) and statistical
tools (e.g. meta-analysis, Bayesian and individual-based
modeling) during their candidature to address important
topical questions in evolutionary and behavioural ecol-
ogy. The student will also work with collaborators from
Macquarie University, Sydney University, and The Aus-
tralian National University in addition to other research
groups at UNSW. We expect the student to travel to
both international and national conferences to present
the results of their work during their candidature.
If you are interested in joining our exciting project at
E&ERC, UNSW please send an email with an expres-
sion of interest, why you are interested in joining the
lab and your CV to Dan (daniel.wa.noble@gmail.com)
and Shinichi (s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au). High qual-
ity applicants will apply for an APA scholar-
ship through UNSW, which covers tuition and
provides a stipend ($25,392/year; more details
at: https://research.unsw.edu.au/domestic-research-
candidate-scholarships). Opportunities exist to make
additional income through teaching positions advertised
in the department.
Note that to apply for an APA scholarship, the candi-
date needs to be an Australian or New Zealand citizen44 EvolDir April 1, 2015
or permanent resident. However, we welcome students
who would like to bring their own scholarship to join
our project.
Shinichi Nakagawa <s.nakagawa@unsw.edu.au >
UQueensland
SexBiasedGeneExpression
Genomics of Sexually Dimorphic Gene Expression
Applications for PhD positions in evolutionary genet-
ics are invited in the lab of Steve Chenoweth at the
University of Queensland. Our group uses genomic and
quantitative genetic approaches to understand the evo-
lution of sex dierences and is currently focused on
theevolution of sexually dimorphic gene expression. We
use both model and non-model Drosophila species and
have recently developed signicant genomic resources
for Drosophila serrata including de novo genome and
transcriptomeassemblies, a panel of 100 re-sequenced
lines and multiple sets of evolvingpopulations. Research
projects will leverage these new resources to developinno-
vative approaches to understand the selective processes
and constraintsthat inuence the evolution of sexual
dimorphism in the transcriptome.
Prior training in the following areas is highly desirable
but not essential: quantitative or population genetics,
bioinformatics, genomics or evolutionary biology.
Qualications
Applicants require either a Bachelor's degree with Hon-
ours, `Master of Science, MPhil or equivalent degrees.
International applicants usually will have published
some work in peer-reviewed journals.Australian and New
Zealand applicants must have received rst class Hon-
ours degrees. Scholarship schemes at the University of
Queensland are highly competitive. The UQ Graduate
School website provides further information on the entry
requirements for admission to the PhD program (http:/-
/www.uq.edu.au/grad-school/our-research-degrees) and
scholarship details. Individuals successful in gaining
a tuition-fee waiver scholarship usually also obtain a
living stipend.
**Application process** Interested candidates
should send a cover letter describing their moti-
vation and research interests along with a CV to
s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au no later than Tuesday April
21st 2015. Short-listed candidates will be asked to
provide further information and documentation andwill be interviewed over Skype. Following, the nal
applicants will be invited to apply for a PhD at UQ.
For further information on the UQ application process
please contact the Postgraduate Administration Ocer
Gail Walter gj.walter@uq.edu.au
**UQ and the School of Biological Sciences** The
School of Biological Sciences is a large and research-
intensive unit at the University of Queensland, one of
Australia'smost prestigious Universities. The School
has broad expertise across the disciplines of ecology and
evolution, molecular and quantitative genetics, devel-
opmental biology, behaviour, plant and animal phys-
iology, and conservation biology. Our research pro-
grams span all scales of biological organisation, from
molecules and cells, to organisms, populations, species
and communities, and take advantage of study animal
and plant systems in a large variety of habitats (see
http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/ for detailed information
on our research programs).
Steve Chenoweth Associate Professor School of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Queensland St. Lucia, QLD
4072 Australia
www.chenowethlab.org s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au
UStAndrews Adaptation
Project title: Genome-scan methods for identifying ge-
nomic regions involved in adaptation to extreme envi-
ronments
Supervisors: Oscar E. Gaggiotti (School of Biology,
University of St Andrews) and Janine Illian (School of
Mathematics & Statistics University of St Andrews)
Climate change can lead to extreme climate and weather
events with dramatic negative impacts on both natu-
ral and domesticated species. Therefore, there is great
interest in identifying genetic variants that may allow
species to adapt to extreme environmental conditions.
The eld of population genomics addresses this problem
by screening genome-wide patterns of DNA polymor-
phism to detect the locus-specic signature of positive
selection. The objective of the doctoral project is to
contribute to this emerging eld by developing state of
the art statistical methodology and a novel genome scan
method to uncover associations between genomic regions
and environment variables (e.g. temperature, aridity)
from the joint analysis of population genomics and en-
vironmental data. The focus will be on spatial andApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 45
spatio-temporal Bayesian methods implemented using
the Integrated Nested Laplace Approximation (INLA).
We are looking for an enthusiastic, dynamic, and inde-
pendent student interested in studies at the interface
between statistics and population genomics. Candidates
must have a strong background in statistics and an in-
terest in population genetics and computational biology.
They should also be procient in English. The focus
of the project is on statistical developments and data
analysis so it does not include any lab or eldwork.
Interested candidates should send CV, statement of
interest and names and contact information of three
references to oeg@st-andrews.ac.uk with the subject
header PHD POSITION.
Oscar E. Gaggiotti Professor, MASTS Chair Scottish
Oceans Institute East Sands University of St Andrews
St Andrews Fife KY16 8LB UK http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk/contact/staprole.aspx?sunID=-
oeg http://www.congressgenetics.eu/-
default.aspx http://intercrossing.wikispaces.com/-
What+is+INTERCROSSING%3F http://-
scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=en&user=-
tfqcdv0AAAAJ Oscar Gaggiotti <oeg@st-
andrews.ac.uk >
UTulsa ComparativeTranscriptomics
Graduate research opportunity to study the comparative
transcriptomics of extreme phenotypes. Department of
Biological Sciences - University of Tulsa
A graduate student at the M.S. or Ph.D level is sought
to work with Drs. Warren Booth and Charles Brown in
the Department of Biological Sciences at The Univer-
sity of Tulsa, Oklahoma. The successful applicant will
develop a research project focused on understanding
the evolution of extreme phenotypes examined through
a comparative transcriptomic approach. In the Booth-
Lab we use cimicid insects as models to study rapid
evolutionary processes and the genetics of spatiotempo-
ral metapopulations. Here, we will investigate extreme
phenotype evolutionary in the swallow bug (Oeciacus
vicarius: Cimicidae), a disease vectoring ectoparasite of
cli swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota). The PIs have
amassed a large collection of swallow bugs exhibiting
phenotypes of interest, specically relating to metabolic
quiescence, thermal tolerance, and dispersal, and are
in the process of sequencing the transcriptomes of an
exploratory set on our inhouse Illumina MiSeq. Thework will draw on a long-term (32-year) study on social
behavior and reproductive ecology of cli swallows in
western Nebraska and the student will have opportuni-
ties to visit the eld site, and collect and sequence the
transcriptomes of additional samples should interesting
questions arise.
Applicants for this position should have a strong
background in population genetics, molecular ecology,
or evolutionary biology, and meet the admission
requirements for the Department of Biological
Sciences graduate program. (http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-of-
Biological-Science.aspx). If a non-U.S citizen, the
applicant must already have a valid VISA permitting
them to enter and study in the United States. Funds
are not available to cover this as part of this project.
The students stipend, tuition, and medical insurance, is
covered as part of the teaching assistantship.
Applications should include the following: 1) A letter
of interest (not exceeding two pages). 2) A curricu-
lum vitae. 3) Names and email addresses for at least
two academics/researchers willing to provide a letter
of recommendation 4) Copies of undergraduate/post-
graduate transcripts 5) Electronic copies of published
manuscripts, if any.
For more information about this opportunity, contact
Drs. Booth (warren-booth@utulsa.edu). Anticipated
start date is mid-August 2015.
Additional information regarding our research can be
found at our current departmental webpages:
Dr. Warren Booth - www.booth-lab.org <http:/-
/www.utulsa.edu/academics/colleges/college-of-
engineering-and-natural-sciences/departments-and-
schools/Department-of-Biological-Science/Our-Faculty-
and-Sta/B/Warren%20Booth.aspx >
Dr. Warren Booth Assistant Professor of Molecular
Ecology Department of Biological Sciences University
of Tulsa 315 Oliphant Hall Tulsa, OK 74104
Tel. (918) 631-3421 - Oce (918) 631-3136
- Lab Web site < http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-
of-Biological-Science/Our-Faculty-and-Sta/B/-
Warren%20Booth.aspx >- TU academic Lab website
<http://www.booth-lab.org/ >
\Booth, Warren" <warren-booth@utulsa.edu >46 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UZurich OrchidSpeciation
PhD Position \ Ecological genomics of parallel
pollinator-driven speciation in orchids
A PhD position is open for a highly motivated stu-
dent with a keen interest in evolutionary and ecological
questions, and a solid knowledge of genomics and bioin-
formatics/statistics.
The successful candidate will be part of a team in-
vestigating the molecular basis of parallel pollinator-
mediated reproductive isolation and ecological specia-
tion between sexually deceptive orchids of the genus
Ophrys. The project seeks to understand the degree
of convergence, at the phenotypic and molecular lev-
els, of two cases of species divergence mediated by the
same pollinators. In particular, the successful candi-
date will investigate (1) the extent of convergence in
pollinator-attractive traits and reproductive isolation
between species, (2) the extent of similarities in the
genomic architecture underlying these adaptive traits,
and (3) the evolution of specic metabolic pathways
(and their regulation) controlling pollinator attraction.
This multidisciplinary project will involve a combination
of eld work (in the Mediterranean) and state-of the
art tools for phenotypic, metabolomic and ecological
genomic (RNA-Seq and Exome-Seq) characterisation of
natural plant populations. For background information
on the study system, please see e.g. Schl uter & Schiestl
(2008, Trends Plant Sci.), Schl uter & al. (2011, PNAS)
and Sedeek & al. (2013, PLoS One; and 2014, Mol.
Ecol.).
The ideal candidate should be highly motivated and able
to articulate her/his motivation for this project clearly.S/he should be well organised, with a thorough under-
standing of evolutionary biology, population genetics
and molecular biology, and should have an interest in
orchid pollination. The candidate is expected to be pro-
cient in statistical data analysis, with a good working
knowledge of R and proven experience in bioinformat-
ics, ideally with an ecological genomics background.
Programming skills in other languages (e.g. Delphi or
C/C++) are an advantage. Since the student will have
to prepare libraries for Illumina sequencing, basic labo-
ratory skills are necessary; previous eld experience is a
plus. Prociency in English and good communication
skills are essential, as is a completed MSc degree (or
equivalent) in biology or a related discipline, and the
proven ability to carry out research independently.
We oer a 3-year PhD position at the Univer-
sity of Zurich, Switzerland, at a competetive salary
(>47kCHF/a before tax) funded by the Swiss National
Science Foundation. The student will be part of the
Institute of Systematic Botany, located in the beau-
tiful Botanic Gardens and within walking distance of
Lake Zurich. The successful candidate will work in a
young, active, interdisciplinary and stimulating environ-
ment and will have access to state-of-the-art tools and
techniques.
Your application should consist of a letter of motivation
(1-2 pages), your CV and (if applicable) publication list,
and the names and e-mail adresses of three academic
referees. The letter of motivation should detail why you
think the project is relevant, why you are personally
interested in it, and why you think you are well-suited
to undertake it. Please send your application (or any
requests for further information) electronically to Dr
Philipp Schl uter (philipp.schlueter at systbot.uzh.ch).
Screening of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled. The preferred start
date is 1st of June 2015.
philipp.schlueter@systbot.uzh.chApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 47
Jobs
AMNH NewYork Parttime EducationFacilitator . . . 47
ColoradoC OneYearTeaching EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
ColoradoStateU GuppyBehavior SummerREU . . . . .48
EwhaWomansU Seoul EcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
ForestService Oregon PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
JustusLiebigU Germany 3 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
LakeForestC Chicago LabTech EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . .50
MasseyU NZ EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
MFPL Vienna ComputationalBiosciences . . . . . . . . . .52
PennsylvaniaStateU CoarlEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
QueenMaryU ResFellow EvolutionaryGenomics . . . .53
RiceU HuxleyFellow EcolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
RutgersU MolLabTech MarineAcclimAdapt . . . . . . . 53
TempleU AsstDir InstGenomicsEvolMed . . . . . . . . . . 54
TempleU DataAnalyst Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
TempleU Evol GenomicsCompSci . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
TempleU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56UBath Tech EvolutionaryGenomicsMicrobes . . . . . . .56
UCalifornia Merced SummerAssist ForestAdaptation 56
UConnecticut Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UGoettingen 4 GeneticsBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UGroningen MolResTech MarineAdaptation . . . . . . .59
UHawaii Hilo ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UHelsinki Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UKansas Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
ULausanne parttime EvolutionaryMicrobiol . . . . . . . 62
UMiami MolResTech MarineMammals . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UOklahoma ResAssistProf Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 63
UPennsylvania Informatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
USussex ResearchTech 2 SocialBees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UVermont LabTech EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . 64
WillametteU VisitingProfessorship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
AMNH NewYork Parttime
EducationFacilitator
The American Museum of Natural History seeks to hire
a part-time Physical Anthropology Facilitator to work
in the Sackler Educational Laboratory for Comparative
Genomics and Human Origins. Primary responsibilities
will be to communicate key concepts in human biol-
ogy and evolution to the public, and teach middle and
high school groups. Facilitation requires comprehensive
knowledge of hominin and primate skeletal material, pro-
ciency with fundamental molecular biology techniques
(i.e. PCR, restriction digest, gel electrophoresis), and a
working knowledge of basic neurobiology. Requirements
are a Masters Degree in Physical Anthropology, Forensic
Anthropology, Genetics, or Human Biology. The ideal
candidate will have informal teaching experience in a
museum, zoo, or after school program.
Please see full listing and apply online here: https:/-
/careers.amnh.org/applicants/jsp/shared/position/-
JobDetails css.jsp?postingId=142402 Julia M. Zichello,
PhD Manager, Sackler Educational Laboratory for
Comparative Genomics and Human Origins American
Museum of Natural History Central Park West at 79th
Street New York, NY 10024 212.769.5138
Julia Zichello <jzichello@amnh.org >ColoradoC OneYearTeaching
EvolBiol
One-year openings in Animal Biology and in Ecology
and Biostatistics
The Department of Organismal Biology and Ecology at
Colorado College announces two one-year, non-tenure
track Assistant Professor positions in Animal Biology
and in Ecology and Biostatistics to begin in August
2015. A review of completed applicant les will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
Responsibilities for the Animal Biology position in-
cludes teaching six courses including one with oversight
of student research; the courses include an introduc-
tory course in vertebrate biology, an animal physiology
course, and either an upper-level or non-majors course
in the candidate's area of specialty. The ability to
integrate subelds of zoology, physiology, and evolution-
ary biology is highly desirable. Apply electronically to:
http://employment.coloradocollege.edu/postings/1948
Responsibilities for the Ecology and Biostatistics posi-
tion includes teaching six courses including one with
oversight of student research; the courses include a eld-
based ecology course, a biostatistics course, and either
an upper-level or non-majors course in the candidate's
area of specialty. Familiarity with experimental design48 EvolDir April 1, 2015
in ecology and with Rocky Mountain or Southwestern
ecosystems is highly desirable. Apply electronically to:
http://employment.coloradocollege.edu/postings/1949
Colorado College is a private, undergraduate, highly
selective liberal arts institution enrolling approximately
2000 students. The college uses the Block Plan calendar
in which students take one class at a time, allowing for
signicant eld experiences.
PhD (or near completion) and teaching experience re-
quired. Applications will include the following: 1) a
description of relevant professional background, 2) state-
ments of teaching philosophy and research interests,
3) curriculum vitae with email address, 4) unocial
copies of undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and
5) 3 letters of recommendation. Information about Col-
orado College and OBE can be found at our web site:
http://www.ColoradoCollege.edu . The Colorado Col-
lege welcomes members of all groups and rearms its
commitment not to discriminate on the basis of race,
color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender iden-
tity, gender expression, national origin, or disability in
its educational programs, activities, and employment
practices. The College is committed to increasing the
diversity of the college community. Candidates who can
contribute to that goal are particularly encouraged to
apply.
Thanks, Shane Shane Heschel Assoc. Prof. Organismal
Biology & Ecology Colorado College
Shane Heschel <Shane.Heschel@ColoradoCollege.edu >
ColoradoStateU GuppyBehavior
SummerREU
The Guppy Group in the Dept. of Biology at Colorado
State University is seeking applicants for an NSF Re-
search Experience for Undergraduates (REU) position in
summer 2015 to study the eects of gene ow on guppy
behavior. The successful applicant will work closely
with Drs. Lisa Angeloni and Chris Funk and PhD stu-
dents John Kronenberger and Dale Broder to develop
an independent research project centered around our
ongoing gene ow experiment. The primary objective
will be to assess how our experimental treatments dier-
entially aect behavior and how this, in turn, impacts
tness. This REU will provide invaluable experience
in study design, behavioral assays, molecular genetic
techniques, data analysis, and dissemination of results,
and will thereby prepare the student for graduate schooland/or a career in inquiry-based scientic research.
This position lasts for 12 weeks (beginning mid- to late-
May) and allows for two weeks o if the student so
desires. A stipend of $2,000/month will be provided to
cover housing and other expenses, and additional funds
are available for travel to a scientic conference. The
student must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident
and should be enrolled as an undergraduate in Fall 2015.
Applications from women, underrepresented minorities,
and persons with disabilities are especially encouraged.
To apply, please email the following applica-
tion materials as PDFs to John Kronenberger
(john.kronenberger@colostate.edu) by Friday, March
20th: 1) A cover letter including the following: - Why
you are interested in this position? - What previous
experience do you have that is relevant for this position?
- When are you available to start and end this position?
- What are your future plans?
2) A resume including contact information for at least
two references
3) A transcript (unocial is acceptable)
For more information about the experiment
referred to above, please visit: http://-
johnkronenberger.weebly.com/ John A. Kronen-
berger PhD Student Graduate Degree Program
in Ecology Department of Biology Colorado State
University 770-355-1855 Check out my website! <
http://johnkronenberger.weebly.com/ >
j.kro365@gmail.com
EwhaWomansU Seoul EcolEvol
Faculty position (non-Korean) in ecology at Ewha Wom-
ans University, Seoul, Korea
Department of Life Science and Division of EcoScience
at Ewha Womans University invites application for a
faculty position in ecology (broadly dened). This posi-
tion is open to candidates without Korean citizenship,
with primary language for teaching and research be-
ing English. It is a tenure-track full-time (12-month)
position at the ranks of either Assistant or Associate
Professor starting in September 2016.
Applicants must have PhD degree in ecology and at least
two years of post-doctoral research experience. The
candidate will teach about two courses per semester, in-
cluding graduate classes, and establish a strong researchApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 49
program leading to publications in major journals in
the elds of ecology.
We are especially interested in candidates studying cen-
tral problems in ecology that have broad impacts and
potential to generate productive collaboration with ecol-
ogists and evolutionary biologists in Korea. Collab-
orative research opportunity exits with the National
Institute of Ecology in Seochon, Korea. The successful
applicant will be a member of the Division of EcoScience
at Ewha, faculty research areas of which include acous-
tic animal behavior and ecology, population genetics
of freshwater and marine sh, theoretical population
genetics, marine invertebrate animal diversity, plant di-
versity and systematics, primate (gibbon) behavior and
ecology, and microbial metabolism.
For initial consideration and inquiry, send CV, re-
search plan and, if possible, link to candidates' Google
Scholar Citation prole by email to Yuseob Kim
(yuseob@ewha.ac.kr) by the 2nd of April. Appli-
cants can also directly submit the application material
to the faculty recruitment system of Ewha (https://-
faculty.ewha.ac.kr) which will be open for application
from March 30 to April 8.
Yuseob Kim <yuseob@ewha.ac.kr >
ForestService Oregon
PlantAdaptation
This is a reciprocal transplant experiment examining
if populations and seed zones (regional groups of pop-
ulations with similar phenotypes and occur in similar
climates) are locally adapted.
|-
Scientists with the Forest Service stationed at the Pacic
Northwest Research Station in Corvallis, OR are looking
for two eld assistants to travel with us to collect data
from a reciprocal transplant experiment at 16 common
garden throughout the Interior Northwest US (OR, WA,
ID, NV) from May-July. This research project is in-
vestigating the ecacy of seed zones (regional groups
of populations with similar phenotypes and occur in
similar climates) for bluebunch wheatgrass comparing
dierences in establishment, survival, and reproduction
of bluebunch wheatgrass populations from local seed
zones compared to non-local seed zones. This study
will explore the consequences of changing climates for
adaptation by substituting space for time to evaluatedierent populations in dierent climates. Results from
this work will aid land managers in maintaining and
restoring healthy ecosystems by using locally adapted
seeds. Assistants will maintain sites, reduce weeds in
study plots, and collect data on the reciprocal transplant
experiment of bluebunch wheatgrass (Pseudoroegneria
spicata) to determine the ecacy of seed zones. Desired
skills include the ability to collect precise data, possess
a valid driver's license, ability to enjoy long distance
driving and scenic views, ability to travel for 5-14 days
periods, ability to weed by hand, and hoe and small
machines.
Biological Science Technician (Plants) GS-0404-04
Applications must be submitted on USA JOBS:
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
396185400 Send questions to Holly Prendeville
\Prendeville, Holly R -FS" <hollyrprendeville@fs.fed.us >
JustusLiebigU Germany 3 Evolution
JOB 1: Early Stage Researcher ESR B3 Biogeography
Institute/ Supervisor Giessen - Christian Albrecht
Title Drivers of Pontocaspian biodiversity Rise and
Demise: satellite regions as source/sinks of Pontocaspian
biota
Summary
The Justus Liebig University Giessen is looking for
prospective candidates with a background in phylogenet-
ics and biogeography and an interest in interdisciplinary
palaeoenvironmental and biodiversity research in the
Pontocaspian region (Black Sea, Caspian Sea and Ana-
tolia and surroundings).
Description
The successful candidate will be employed as researcher
without a PhD and enrolled as PhD student to com-
plete a PhD thesis within the contract period of 3 years
to assess the role of satellite regions (Anatolian and
possibly Balkan lake systems) in the evolution of Pon-
tocaspian biota over the past 3 Ma. Lakes and Quater-
nary lake deposits in Anatolia and the Balkans contain
various groups of Pontocaspian taxa. However, it re-
mains largely unknown whether these satellite areas
served as sink or source (cf. refuges) for Pontocaspian
biota. Combined molecular phylogenetic analyses of
extant Pontocaspian species from Anatolian and Balkan50 EvolDir April 1, 2015
lakes with a rigorous updated study of fossil occur-
rences and their depositional/geochemical context in
these lake basins will allow testing their role as sinks
and/or sources. The environmental context of biotic
change in selected lake successions will be determined
through sedimentological and geochemical analyses and
compared with ostracod data through parallel projects.
The successful applicant will test the role of selected
satellite regions as sources/sinks of Pontocaspian biota
using fossil^ acalibrates molecular clock approaches and
phylogeographical analyses (gene^ aow analyses and an-
cestral area reconstructions). This project will include a
combined secondment at Naturalis Biodiversity Center
and GiMaRIS in Leiden (NL) to study fossil molluscs
and to train for conservation biodiversity assessment
techniques. The candidate will enroll in an extensive
Network Training Program.
Research Fields
Comparative biogeography, phylogeography, biodiver-
sity, paleontology, Biostratigraphy
Career Stage Early stage researcher or 04 yrs (Post
graduate)
Research Proles First Stage Researcher (R1)
Type of contract Temporary employment with the Fed-
eral State of Hesse. Full time 40 hrs/wk
Salary a month/year A salary that matches the
MSCAITN and local rules, a monthly mobility allowance
of 600,gross and a possible monthly family allowance of
500,gross.
Benets In accordance with Marie Sklodowska Curie
Regulations
Information about the Marie Sklodowska Curie
actions is available at http://ec.europa.eu/-
research/mariecurieactions/ http://ec.europa.eu/-
research/mariecurieactions/aboutmsca/quickguide/-
index en.htm Financial and other technical infor-
mation is available at http://ec.europa.eu/research/-
mariecurieactions/aboutmsca/actions/itn/index en.htm
www.pontocaspian.eu Address details of workplace
Department of Animal Ecology and Systematics
Systematics and Biodiversity Group Justus Liebig
University Giessen H.-Bu-Ring 26-32 (IFZ) D-35392
Giessen, Germany
Specic demands from your country/ institute Abil-
ity to work in an internationally oriented environment,
including uency in English I3
4M.Sc. in relevant eld
Applicants are invited to submit the following docu-
ments:
Letter of application (max 2 pages); Resume (Curricu-lum vitae); The names, position and e-mail addresses of
at least two persons that can be contacted for reference;
List of publications, including submitted manuscripts
or papers in press, if any; Transcript of BSc and MSc
diploma.
The required documents should be submitted by email
to sollicitaties@naturalis.nl before 16 April 2015.
Job 2: Early Stage Researcher ESR B4 Evolution Insti-
tute/ Supervisor Giessen - Tom Wilke
Title Drivers of Pontocaspian biodiversity Rise and
Demise: Molecular evolution of Pontocaspian biota
Summary The Justus Liebig University Giessen is look-
ing for prospective candidates with a background in
evolutionary biology and an interest in interdisciplinary
palaeontological and phylogenetic research in the Pon-
tocaspian region (Black Sea, Caspian Sea and Anatolia
and surroundings).
Description The successful candidate will be employed as
researcher without a PhD and enrolled as PhD student
to complete a PhD thesis within the contract period
of 3 years to reconstruct past evolutionary events and
diversity changes over ~2 Ma in several Pontocaspian
species ocks
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LakeForestC Chicago LabTech
EvoDevo
Lab Tech position in EcoEvoDevo at Lake Forest Col-
lege, Chicago.
We are looking to appoint a research technician and lab
manager to work on an NSF-funded project for at least
one year. The major duties of the position are to assist
and support undergraduate research in integrative devel-
opmental biology in the Shingleton Laboratory at Lake
Forest College. The specic focus of the project is to
explore the developmental mechanisms by which oxygen
inuences body size, using Drosophila as a model organ-
ism. This is an ideal position for individuals wanting to
gain additional research experience before applying to
graduate school, although more experienced researchers
are encourage to apply.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 51
The Shingleton laboratory explores the developmental
mechanisms that regulate body and organ size, and how
these mechanisms evolve to generate morphological di-
versity. We are particularly interested in environmental
regulators of body and organ size, including oxygen level,
nutrition and temperature. The Shingleton laboratory
works closely with collaborators in Arizona, Texas and
Australia, and there is the potential to travel to partner
institutions to gain additional research experience. More
information about the Shingleton laboratory can be ob-
tained here: http://campus.lakeforest.edu/shingleton/-
index.html Lake Forest College is a small liberal arts
college located 30 miles north of Chicago, with a heavy
emphasis on research. Faculty in the biology department
maintain active research programs and the college has
strong connections with other Chicago-based research
institutions. The college is easily accessible from the
city by train, and many faculty and sta commute daily
to campus from Chicago.
Candidates must have a bachelors degree in a biology-
related eld, excellent organizational and time man-
agement skills, and basic computer skills (excel, word
processing, etc.). Candidates must also have experience
with Drosophila genetics and y pushing. Familiarity
with basic molecular biology techniques is preferred but
not essential.
Principal Responsibilities:
Conduct experiments in support of critical developmen-
tal physiology projects in the laboratory.
Maintain Drosophila stocks and conduct crosses to gen-
erate ies with specic genotypes.
Assist in supervising undergraduate researchers in vari-
ous laboratory projects.
Provide laboratory-specic training for researchers.
Order laboratory supplies and manage laboratory re-
sources.
To apply:
Applicants should send a CV, a covering letter explain-
ing their suitability for the post, and contact details
(including email addresses) of 2-3 referees who would be
available to provide references before interview. Inter-
views will be conducted in person for candidates living
locally, or via skype. Complete application packages,
as well as informal inquiries, should be sent to: shingle-
ton@mx.lakeforest.edu
Review of applicants will begin immediately and con-
tinue until position is lled. Ideal start data is 5/1/15.
Lake Forest College embraces diversity and encourages
applications from women and members of other histori-cally underrepresented groups.
Alexander W. Shingleton Associate Professor
Department of Biology Lake Forest College 555 North
Sheridan Road Lake Forest, IL 60045
Ph: 847-735-6049 web: cam-
pus.lakeforest.edu/shingleton
\Shingleton, Alexander"
<shingleton@mx.lakeforest.edu >
MasseyU NZ EvolutionaryEcol
We seek to appoint a new Lecturer in Ecology within
the Institute of Agriculture and Environment (IAE) at
Massey University's Palmerston North campus, New
Zealand
http://massey-careers.massey.ac.nz/8723/lecturer-in-
ecology Closing date is 30 April 2015
Applicants for the position will have excellent academic
credentials and a PhD in Ecology or related discipline,
a demonstrated track record of high-quality research
outputs and success in obtaining research grants. The
successful candidate will pursue research of international
calibre, attract external research funding, supervise post-
graduate students, and teach at all levels, both within
the BSc Major in Ecology and also potentially across
related elds (e.g., Conservation Biology, Environmental
Science, Zoology, Physiology, Biometry), engaging in
novel curriculum development for research-led teaching.
The successful candidate will also engage in outreach and
administrative services to the University and broader
academic and professional communities.
We seek candidates whose research programme will com-
plement and enhance the existing Ecology Group re-
search capabilities within IAE, which has strengths in
behavioural ecology, population and community ecol-
ogy, evolutionary ecology, freshwater ecology, plant ecol-
ogy, conservation biology, zoology, and environmental
science and management. The ideal candidates will
also establish collaborations with researchers from other
disciplines within IAE. Applicants from all elds of
Ecology will be considered, but those with expertise in
ecosystem ecology, microbial ecology, landscape ecology,
behavioural ecology, evolutionary ecology, population
ecology, or applied entomology are particularly encour-
aged to apply.
Level of position and salary will be commensurate with52 EvolDir April 1, 2015
experience.
For further information please visit; http://-
jobs.massey.ac.nz/ Enquiries of a scientic nature
should be directed to Prof Murray Potter (telephone
+64 6 356 9099 ext: 84836; DDI +64 6 9517836;
Fax: +64 6 3505623. Email: m.potter@massey.ac.nz.
Information about the Ecology Group and links to other
IAE pages can be found at http://ecology.massey.ac.nz
. M.Morgan-Richards@massey.ac.nz
MFPL Vienna
ComputationalBiosciences
The following text can also be found at:
http://www.mfpl.ac.at/about-us/open-positions/-
position/news-detail/wwtf-funded-positions-in-the-
computational-biosciences-hosted-by-the-mfpl.html
WWTF-funded positions in the Computational
Biosciences, hosted by the Max F. Perutz Laboratories
(MFPL), Vienna, Austria
The WWTF Austria has launched a call for applications
in the Computational Biosciences.
The \Vienna Research Groups for Young Investigators"
call by the City of Vienna and the WWTF will fund
promising young scientists starting their rst indepen-
dent research group in Vienna. One to two positions
with up to 1.6 Mio. EUR funding per group are avail-
able, for 6-8 years, with the possibility during this time
of conversion to a tenure track position. See:
http://www.wwtf.at/programmes/ls/index#c4567h
The positions need to be hosted by a university or
research institute in Vienna, so the MFPL (http://-
www.mfpl.ac.at) is now seeking outstanding candidates
from, but not limited to, the following areas:
- Computational Biology - Bioinformatics - Computa-
tional Biophysics and Structural Biology - Computa-
tional Genomics - Computational Population Biology -
Computational Phylogenomics
Interested candidates should send their CV, brief ca-
reer summary and research proposal, up to three publi-
cations, and the names of three referees, preferably
as a single PDF, to Graham Warren (facultyopen-
ings@mfpl.ac.at). The deadline is April 20th 2015.
This is a two-step procedure. Short-listed applicants
will be invited to MFPL for interview in May and suc-
cessful candidates will then be sponsored by the MFPLto apply for one of the WWTF positions, the deadline
for which is July 15th 2015.
Heiko Schmidt <heiko.schmidt@univie.ac.at >
PennsylvaniaStateU CoarlEvolution
The Baums lab in the Department of Biology at Penn
State (http://bio.psu.edu/directory/ibb3) is looking for
an experienced researcher to conduct NSF-funded ex-
periments on acclimatization of shallow-water corals to
increased temperature as a result of the 2014 bleaching
event in the Florida Keys. Responsibilities include or-
ganizing and conducting a microcosm experiment over
three months in the Florida Keys (July -Sep 2015) with
little supervision, requiring the researcher to live in
the Florida Keys during this time. Experience with
aquarium experiments on corals and AAUS SCUBA
certication is required. The successful candidate will
be procient in using molecular tools such as gene ex-
pression analysis, RADtag sequencing and bacterial 16s
tag sequencing as well as analysis of next generation
sequencing data. An advanced degree in marine biology
or molecular ecology or related elds is needed. This
position will be lled at the research assistant or re-
search associate level, depending upon education and
experience. Candidate must be able to begin work on
1 June 2015. Position initially funded for 6 months
with possibility of continuation. Applications must be
submitted electronically at https://psu.jobs/job/56345
and include a cover letter detailing research interests
and experience, a current CV and names and contact
information for three references. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until position is
lled.
CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more
about safety at Penn State, and to review the Annual
Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please
go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/ , which will also
provide you with detail on how to request a hard copy
of the Annual Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment
opportunities to minorities, women, veterans, disabled
individuals, and other protected groups.
Job URL: https://psu.jobs/job/56345 ibb3@psu.eduApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 53
QueenMaryU ResFellow
EvolutionaryGenomics
Queen Mary University of London
Research Fellow to develop Bioinformatics / Evolution-
ary Genomics Facilities
The School is therefore recruiting an exceptional per-
son to help improve our use of computing resources to
drive forward Evolutionary Genomics & Bioinformatics
research in the School. We are looking for someone who
likes to make things happen, who is a problem solver
and is passionate about carving themselves a role with
a broad range of skills. We need someone who is keen
and has a can-do attitude for this exciting and varied
role.
The successful candidate might have a background in
evolutionary biology, computer science or an informat-
ics discipline. They will be expected to combine evo-
lutionary insight and considerable expertise in High
Performance computing and sysadmin and hacking (e.g.
BioPython, BioPerl, ruby, shell, R, node/javascript).
For example the successful candidate would be expected
to be able to set up a Galaxy server and help new users
exploit it for Genomic analysis, proteomics etc.
Closing date 27 March 2015
More information available at: http://goo.gl/-
TCIrdu http://bit.lty/genehack http://-
www.hr.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/items/148561.html RA
Nichols <r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk >
RiceU HuxleyFellow EcolEvolution
HUXLEY FELLOW in ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION:
The BioSciences department of Rice University (*http:/-
/biosciences.rice.edu/*) seeks to ll a Huxley Fellow
position in ECOLOGY or EVOLUTION. The position
is a two-year appointment with a third year extension
possible, with a tentative start date of July 1, 2015.
Our prestigious Huxley Fellow Program aims to recruit
outstanding researchers with a PhD and postdoctoral
experience, who merge excellence in teaching (25%) andresearch (75%). The Huxley Fellows receive faculty sta-
tus, employee benets, competitive salary, and research
funds for independent or collaborative research. Collab-
orative interests with the existing faculty in the EEB
research area are a plus. An application (curriculum
vitae, statement of research interests and statement of
teaching) and three letters of recommendation should be
submitted via e-mail to Diane Hatton, *rdh@rice.edu*.
Please write \Huxley Fellow Application" in the subject
line. Application review will begin March 27, 2015. For
further questions and informal inquiries please contact
Dr. Julia Saltz (*julia.b.saltz@rice.edu*), Huxley Fellow
Search Committee Chair. Rice University is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action Employer and values a
diverse faculty. Women and minorities are encouraged
to apply.
Julia B. Saltz Assistant Professor of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology Department of Biosciences Rice Uni-
versity 6100 Main Street, MS-170 Houston, TX 77005
julia.b.saltz@rice.edu Saltzlab.wordpress.com
jbsaltz@gmail.com
RutgersU MolLabTech
MarineAcclimAdapt
Laboratory Technician, Rutgers University, New
Brunswick, NJ
The Adams Lab in the Department of Marine and
Coastal Sciences is searching for an organized, enthusi-
astic, and skilled individual to work as a full time labo-
ratory technician. We use developmental and molecular
biology techniques coupled with eld observations to
study the role of the larval stage in the acclimatization
and adaptation of marine species around the world.
The technician will assist the PI in managing the molec-
ular lab and conducting research. Specic duties will
include ordering and maintaining equipment and sup-
plies, care of invertebrate animals (e.g. sea urchins,
corals), preparing DNA and RNA libraries, character-
izing gene expression, performing basic data analysis,
training students, and maintaining an organized, safe,
and productive laboratory environment. Up to 20%
travel may be required. We oer an exciting and in-
terdisciplinary work environment, opportunities to be
involved in a wide range of ecological, developmental
and evolutionary projects, and the potential for co-
authorship on scientic manuscripts.54 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Minimum Qualications
- A bachelors degree in a related scientic eld or an
equivalent combination of education and relevant ex-
perience in molecular ecology, molecular biology, or
developmental biology
- Demonstrated understanding and experience in molec-
ular biology procedures (e.g. preparing reagents/buers,
gel electrophoresis, PCR, and cloning)
- Demonstrated ability to execute tasks eciently and
with rigor
- Exceptional organizational skills and strong ability to
accomplish tasks independently
- Ability to master detailed laboratory procedures
- Excellent communication in English and prociency
using Microsoft oce
- The ability to lift at least thirty pounds
Preferred Qualications
- Previous experience working in a lab characterizing
gene expression and/or organismal responses to environ-
mental changes
- Previous experience working with invertebrate larvae,
marine or aquatic
- Knowledge of marine biology or ecology
- Familiarity with immunostaining and/or gene pertur-
bation techniques
- A Master's degree or equivalent research experience in
a related scientic eld will be viewed positively
This is a full-time position, initially appointed for a pe-
riod of 12 months at a yearly salary of $36,000 - $45,000
(depending on qualications), plus benets. The posi-
tion can be extended depending on performance and
funding.
To apply, please submit a PDF-format application in-
cluding (1) a cover letter; (2) a curriculum vitae detailing
past research experience and educational training; and
(3) contact information for three professional references
via e-mail to diane.adams(at)rutgers.edu. Please write
\Laboratory technician position" in the subject line. Ap-
plications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until the
position is lled. The position is available to begin as
early as May 1 ^st and as late as July 1 ^st.
More information about the Adams lab can be found
at http://adams.marine.rutgers.edu. Please contact Dr.
Diane Adams, diane.adams(at)rutgers.edu, if you have
any questions.
Rutgers is an equal opportunity, armative action em-
ployer, and is committed to providing employment op-portunities to minorities, women, veterans, disabled
individuals, and other protected groups.
Diane K Adams, PhD
Rutgers the State University of New Jersey Institute of
Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Dept of Marine
and Coastal Sciences 71 Dudley Rd, New Brunswick NJ
08901 USA
(w) 848-932-3279 (c) 617-312-8076
dadams@marine.rutgers.edu
Diane K Adams <dadams@marine.rutgers.edu >
TempleU AsstDir
InstGenomicsEvolMed
iGEM @ Temple University Assistant Director
The Institute for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine
(iGEM) is seeking candidates for the position of the
Assistant Director of iGEM (http://igem.temple.edu).
He/she will assist the Director (Sudhir Kumar) in all
matters related to operations, academics, and grants.
The duties include assistance with writing grant appli-
cations and progress reports, development and manage-
ment of shared institutional resources, developing and
maintaining relationships with stakeholders or potential
funding sources, and coordinating institute outreach.
They will also be responsible for the coordination of ac-
tivities such as: implementing systems and procedures,
preparing reports and/or nancial analyses, managing
web presence, and organizing special events, workshops
, and meetings.
We are looking for candidates with knowledge of molec-
ular and/or genomic biology, strong interpersonal skills,
and excellent oral and written communication abilities.
Prociency with Microsoft word, power point, and ex-
cel is a must. While we seek candidates with doctoral
degree who do not plan to pursue traditional research
careers, applications from highly experienced candidates
with bachelors and masters degrees will also be seriously
considered.
Interested candidates should send inquiries or their de-
tailed resume to s.kumar@temple.edu (include a cover
letter). The application deadline is March 31, 2015.
Temple University is located in the heart of historic
Philadelphia, and is the sixth largest provider of gradu-
ate school education in the USA. Situated between NewApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 55
York City and Washington DC, Philadelphia is home
to a large biotech industry and has many outstanding
academic, research, and cultural institutions. Temple
University is an equal opportunity, equal access, arma-
tive action employer committed to achieving a diverse
community (AA, EOE, m/f/d/v).
Sudhir Kumar, Ph.D. Director, iGEM@Temple http://-
igem.temple.edu s.kumar@temple.edu phone: 623-225-
5230
s.kumar@temple.edu
TempleU DataAnalyst Genomics
Data Analyst Position
Temple University's Institute for Genomics & Evolution-
ary Medicine (iGEM; igem.temple.edu) seeks a Technical
Support Specialist Assistant focused on the analysis of
large sequence datasets. Responsibilities include data
management and archiving, development and imple-
mentation of standard workows and pipelines, and
analysis of high throughput data for empirical research
conducted by iGEM scientists and collaborators.
Required Education and Experience:
Associate's (or higher) degree with at least one year of
experience in data analysis and/or computer program-
ming. Demonstrated experience programming with stan-
dard languages and tools. An equivalent combination
of education and experience may be considered. Expe-
rience working in an academic research environment is
preferred.
The successful candidate will have strong organizational
and record keeping skills, clear understanding of DNA
and expression data, experience and comfort with le
manipulation in a Windows/LINUX environment as
well as designing and troubleshooting analysis pipelines
using published sequence analysis tools.
Temple University's Main Campus is located in the
heart of Philadelphia, the 5th largest city in the United
States. Philadelphia is known as a center of history, arts,
and culture with a relatively aordable cost of living.
Temple University serves a diverse student population
with an enrollment of ~38000 students in 2014, and is
part of a vibrant educational community of 34 colleges
located within the city limits.
Job Posting at Temple Human Resources: https:/-
/hospats.adminsvc.temple.edu/css external/-CSSPage JobDetail.ASP?T=20150324152430&
Apply for this position online at: https:/-
/hospats.adminsvc.temple.edu/css external/-
cssPage Welcome.asp (USE job# TU-18850).
For additional information or enquiries, contact Sudhir
Kumar (s.kumar@temple.edu)
Sudhir Kumar <s.kumar@temple.edu >
TempleU Evol GenomicsCompSci
Evolution/Genome Informatics Faculty Positions (As-
sistant/Associate Professors)
The Institute for Genomics and Evolutionary Medicine
(iGEM) at Temple University invites applications for
tenured and tenure-track faculty positions. We are
interested in early and mid-career scientists who are
developing theories, methods, algorithms, software, and
resources for addressing signicant problems in the do-
main of genome sequences and variation data.
As core faculty of iGEM (http://igem.temple.edu), suc-
cessful candidates will be part of an interdisciplinary
team of world-class faculty in biology, genomics and
computer and information sciences. The successful fac-
ulty will have their tenure home in the Department of
Computer and Information Sciences. Applicants for the
assistant professor position should have the potential
to develop a signicant, extramurally funded research
program Applicants for the senior position are expected
to have an outstanding and continuing track record of
research and funding.
Applicants should submit to igem@temple.edu a single
pdf containing a cover letter, a detailed curriculum vi-
tae, a summary of current and future research interests,
and a statement of teaching philosophy. Please include
in the cover letter a link to a Google Scholar prole.
Through their research and teaching statements appli-
cants should inform the search committee about the
transformative and cross-disciplinary aspects of their
work. Review of applications will begin on March 21,
2015 and continue until the positions are lled.
Temple University is located in the heart of historic
Philadelphia, and is the sixth largest provider of gradu-
ate school education in the USA. Situated between New
York City and Washington DC, Philadelphia is home
to a large biotech industry and has many outstanding
academic, research, and cultural institutions. Temple
University is an equal opportunity, equal access, arma-56 EvolDir April 1, 2015
tive action employer committed to achieving a diverse
community (AA, EOE, m/f/d/v).
Sudhir Kumar, Ph.D. Director, iGEM@Temple (http:/-
/igem.temple.edu) Institute for Genomics and Evo-
lutionary Medicine Carnell Professor of Biology
Temple University (SERC 602A) Philadelphia, PA
19122, USA https://twitter.com/kumar lab http://-
www.kumarlab.net s.kumar@temple.edu
TempleU PopulationGenetics
Postdoctoral and Assistant Research Professor positions
in Computational Genetics/Genomics at Temple Uni-
versity
Multiyear NIH-funded support is available for either an
early stage postdoctoral researcher, or an experienced
postdoctoral researcher who would serve as Research
Assistant Professor.
Research area: population genetics/genomics
The successful candidate will very likely have extensive
experience in population genetic theory, particularly
in the mathematical or statistical aspects of analyzing
population genomics data.
The successful candidate will become a member of both
the Center for Computational Genetics and Genomics
(CCGG) and the Institute for Genomic and Evolution-
ary Medicine (iGEM). CCGG and iGEM are new centers
of excellence in Temple University.
For the position of Research Assistant Professor, a key
goal is developing research independence by writing and
obtaining grant applications. The position also carries
opportunities for teaching, both in the classroom and
in the laboratory.
Please send a CV and a statement of research interests
and career goals to:
Jody Hey email: hey@temple.edu
Websites: https://bio.cst.temple.edu/ ~hey https://-
bio.cst.temple.edu/ ~hey/CCGG/index.html http://-
igem.temple.edu/ tuf29449@temple.eduUBath Tech
EvolutionaryGenomicsMicrobes
We are excited to be recruiting a Research Technician
to work on a project focused on the genetic basis and
evolution of social and life-history traits in a microbe (a
social amoeba). The project will combine high through-
put measurements of traits with genome sequencing
to understand the genetic basis to variation in natural
populations. The technician will be required to work
independently and will oversee several dierent technical
components requiring dierent skill sets. The techni-
cian will support all aspects of the project, including
culturing of strains, performing phenotyping assays, the
preparation of genomic DNA samples and the processing
of data sets.
The successful candidate will have a university degree in
biology and relevant experience with laboratory based
research in biology, including knowledge of basic molec-
ular biology. Previous experience with microbiological
techniques is desirable.
The position is xed-term of 24 months and available
to start as early as May 2015, but later start dates may
be possible, subject to negotiation and approval.
For further information and to apply please see: https:/-
/www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SS3028 For
an informal discussion about the role, please contact
Prof Jason Wolf via email: j.b.wolf@bath.ac.uk (tele-
phone or Skype consultations can be arranged)
jason@evolutionarygenetics.org
UCalifornia Merced SummerAssist
ForestAdaptation
Lab/Field Assistant Job
I am a plant biologist at UC Merced looking for at least
one full-time summer lab & eld assistant. Research
in our lab centers on forest ecology & genetics, par-
ticularly responses to climate change. The technician
appointment would be for four months, with potential
for renewal. Starting pay $14.57/hour. Available startApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 57
dates: April 25-May 30, 2015.
Candidates must have a bachelors degree in a biology-
related eld, good organizational and time management
skills, basic computer skills (excel, word processing, etc.),
and a drivers license. Candidates must have either:
A) Experience with plant genetics, including sequenc-
ing, DNA extraction, PCR. Experience developing or
working with SNPs would be desirable.
B) Forest ecology eld experience, including measuring
and identifying trees, collecting seed, etc.
or C) A mixture of these skills.
Additional skills that would be desirable (but not nec-
essarily required) include experience with plant prop-
agation, a working knowledge of statistics, and/or R
programming. Please not if you have a drivers license
and access to a vehicle.
Under-represented minorities are particularly encour-
aged to apply.
Duties may include:
- - Developing SNP markers for Ponderosa pine alongside
collaborators at Davis
- - Locating and setting up eld sites in the Sierra Nevada
- - Assisting with equipment ordering and testing of
protocols in the lab
- - Literature searches to nd data to parameterize forest
models
- - Cleaning and maintaining laboratory equipment
- - Data entry and analysis
The laboratory assistant will also be expected to partici-
pate in lab meetings and update his/her skills by reading
and participating classes/workshops as necessary.
To apply, upload your CV and a cover letter explaining
your interest in the position to the UCM AP recruit
system (https://aprecruit.ucmerced.edu/apply, position
#5886) or follow this link: https://jobs.ucmerced.edu/-
n/sta/position.jsf?positionId=5886 . For full consider-
ation, please apply before March 30.
For more information, please contact me at
emoran5@ucmerced.edu
UC Merced is the newest school of the University of
California system (http://www.ucmerced.edu/). The
campus is small but diverse. Merced is a town of 80
thousand people located in the central valley, and cost of
living is low. It is conveniently located 1 hour north of
Fresno (the closest airport), 2 hours east of Berkeley and
San Francisco, 2 hours south of Davis and Sacramento,
and 2 hours west of Yosemite National Park.Emily Moran, Assistant Professor, UC Merced
Emily Moran <emoran5@ucmerced.edu >
UConnecticut Bioinformatics
Research Scientist Position in Genomics
A research scientist position in bioinformatics and com-
putational biology is available in the Malone Labora-
tory of Gene Dosage and Evolution. The laboratory
addresses questions of gene dosage, aneuploidy, sex chro-
mosome evolution, and sex determination to ultimately
understand the relationship between gene dose, genome
balance, and phenotype.
The research scientist will take part in de novo assembly
analyses of several frog species and analyze a variety of
high-throughput sequencing datasets to address ques-
tions of dose, dosage compensation, and genome evo-
lution. Prociency with multiple scripting languages,
high-throughput sequencing analysis, and tools for com-
putational, comparative, and evolutionary genomic anal-
ysis are required.
The environment for genomic research at the Univer-
sity of Connecticut is vibrant, including the Institute
of Systems Genomics, University of Connecticut Health
Center, Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, and
Center for Genome Innovation. The Malone laboratory
interacts closely with these centers and resources, cre-
ating exciting new avenues for answering questions in
genome biology. Candidates should expect to engage
with the local genome analysis community.
Applicants should send a single PDF le that contains a
cover letter describing your research interests and experi-
ence (maximum 2 pages), C.V., and contact information
for three references to john.malone@uconn.edu. Appli-
cations will be reviewed immediately until the position
is lled.
Candidates interested in a postdoctoral position are
also encouraged to apply and informal inquires from
candidates with other backgrounds in genomics and
evolutionary biology are welcome.
John H. Malone Assistant Professor of Genetics
and Genomics Institute of Systems Genomics De-
partment of Molecular and Cell Biology University
of Connecticut http://mcb.uconn.edu/john-malone/
john.malone@uconn.edu58 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UGoettingen 4 GeneticsBreeding
Dear colleagues,
please nd enclosed an opening for four professorships
in the newly created \Center for Integrated Breed-
ing" at the Georg-August-University Goettingen. Fur-
ther information can be found at http://www.uni-
goettingen.de/en/507592.html, or you can contact me
(hsimian@gwdg.de). Please feel free to bring this open-
ing to the attention of potential applicants.
Thanks and best wishes
Henner Simianer
Dr. Henner Simianer Professor of Animal Breeding
and Genetics Department of Animal Sciences Georg-
August-University Goettingen Albrecht-Thaer-Weg 3,
37075 Goettingen Tel.: +49-551-395604, Fax: +49-
551-395587 Email: hsimian@gwdg.de http://www.uni-
goettingen.de/tierzucht The Faculty of Agricultural Sci-
ences at the Georg-August University G ottingen seeks
to ll four professorships within the framework of a new
\Center for Integrated Breeding" at the earliest possible
date.
The professorships are part of a \Center for Integrated
Breeding" which is unique in Europe. This center is
presently in the development stage und will bring to-
gether knowledge from plant- and animal-breeding with
contributions from natural sciences as well as social sci-
ences in order to establish an internationally leading
role in this eld. The establishment of the Center is
being supported by leading German companies in the
elds of animal and plant breeding. The successful can-
didates are expected to show a strong interdisciplinary
approach and the willingness to cooperate with other
faculties. There are excellent opportunities for research
in cooperation with companies internationally active in
the elds of animal and plant breeding.
In teaching, the professorships should contribute to the
research orientated MSc-programme \Integrated Plant
and Animal Breeding", which is to be established, as well
as to other programmes oered by the Faculty of Agricul-
tural Sciences for BSc-, MSc- and PhD-students. Ability
and willingness to teach in English are a prerequisite.
The conditions for being appointed to a professorship
are stated inx25 of the Nieders achsischen Hochschulge-
setzes (NHG) vom 26.02.2007 (Nds. GVBl. S. 69). The
University of G ottingen Public Law Foundation hasthe right to appoint professors. Details will be gladly
explained upon request. Applications from abroad are
expressly welcome. Under certain circumstances, the
positions may be lled on a part-time basis. The Uni-
versity of G ottingen strives to increase its proportion of
female sta in elds where women are underrepresented
and expressly encourages qualied women to apply. The
university plans to make the professorships part of the
Programme for Women Professors jointly organised by
the German federal government and regional states. Dis-
abled persons with equivalent qualication will be given
preference.
Applications including a CV with a representation of the
applicant's academic education and career, publications
and teaching record should be submitted electronically
no later than April 19, 2015. Further information and
the application portal: http://www.uni-goettingen.de/-
en/507592.html Full Professor \Functional Breeding '
genetics and improvement of functional traits by breed-
ing" The successful candidate will cover the eld of
development and implication of breeding methods for
the purpose of improving functional traits in livestock
with a focus on poultry. Research should contribute
to combining the necessary genetic performance of live-
stock with the expression of functional traits such as
fertility, health, behaviour and resource eciency under
the aspect of animal welfare. To this purpose, modern
genome-based approaches including methods of quanti-
tative genetics should be utilised. Facilities for experi-
mental research with animals are available. Temporary
professor (W2) with tenure track \Breeding Informatics"
The successful candidate will develop methods based
on bioinformatics for the ecient use of data from
genome sequencing, high-throughput phenotyping and
high-throughput genotyping in animal and plant breed-
ing. This entails the development of methods which
combine bioinformatics approaches with concepts from
quantitative genetics, statistical genetics and popula-
tion genomics. The methods thus formulated should be
tested with very large data sets (\Big Data") stemming
from practical breeding.
Full Professor (W3) \Plant Breeding Methodology " The
successful candidate covers the discipline of Plant Breed-
ing and all aspects of its role in crop production. A
strong methodological focus on Quantitative Genetics /
Population Genetics as well as Selection Theory is ex-
pected. At a later moment, the candidate will succeed
Prof. Dr. Heiko Becker, Professor of Plant Breeding.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 59
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen MolResTech
MarineAdaptation
Dear all,
We have a Molecular Research Technician position open
in our lab. We are searching for a research laboratory
technician for our general research program, which aims
at population genetic and genomic analyses of pelagic
marine vertebrates using \classic" and Next Genera-
tion molecular technologies. The ultimate goal of our
research is to understand the mechanisms driving popu-
lation structuring and adaptation in the marine environ-
ment. Many aspects of our research have conservation
implications. The research laboratory technician will be
responsible for the daily management of the laboratory
facilities and perform a range of molecular analyses. The
research laboratory technician will also be involved in
teaching, training and the support of researchers and
students.
This position is a 0.8 full time employment with a one
year probation period and the perspective of long-term
prolongation. The deadline is the 26th March 2015
(23h59 Dutch local time).
Details about the application are provided below and
are available on the University website where you can
also apply http://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-with-us/-
job-opportunities/overview?details=00347-02S0004DIP
Best regards Michael C Fontaine
- -
Organisation Since its foundation in 1614, the University
of Groningen has established an international reputa-
tion as a dynamic and innovative university oering
high-quality teaching and research. Its 30,000 students
are encouraged to develop their own individual talents
through challenging study and career paths. The Univer-
sity of Groningen is an international centre of knowledge
and ranks among the top research universities in Europe.
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
in the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences of
the University of Groningen invites applications for a
position as molecular research technician placed with
the research group Marine Evolution and Conservation
(MarECON). MarECON's main research focus is on
the evolution and conservation of pelagic marine verte-brates. The group has excellent laboratory facilities for
molecular analyses.
Job description We are searching for a research lab-
oratory technician for our general research program,
which aims at population genetic and genomic analyses
of pelagic marine vertebrates using \classic" and Next
Generation molecular technologies. The ultimate goal
of our research is to understand the mechanisms driving
population structuring and adaptation in the marine
environment. Many aspects of our research have conser-
vation implications. The research laboratory technician
will be responsible for the daily management of the
laboratory facilities and perform a range of molecular
analyses. The research laboratory technician will also
be involved in teaching, training and the support of
researchers and students.
Qualications We are looking for an enthusiastic, self-
motivated and independent co-worker, who enjoys rou-
tine laboratory work, equipment and database mainte-
nance as well as the adoption and implementation of
new molecular methods (including NGS technologies).
Required skills: - a Master or professional (HBO) de-
gree in biology or relevant related eld (e.g., molecu-
lar biology) - at least one year working experience in
a molecular biology laboratory - demonstrated under-
standing and experience in the application of molecular
genetic laboratory procedures (e.g., DNA extraction,
Sanger sequencing as well as microsatellite genotyping)
- demonstrated understanding of Next Generation Se-
quencing technologies - demonstrated ability to execute
working tasks eciently and with rigor - demonstrated
ability to independently acquire and implement novel
molecular protocols and troubleshooting - prociency in
standard productivity software, such as Microsoft Oce,
basic genetic software (e.g., sequencing visualization and
microsatellite genotyping) as well as database entry and
management - good communication skills and a strong
command of both written and spoken English.
Additional desired skills: - experience with next-
generation molecular protocols including preparation
of libraries for next generation sequencing - experience
with student training and supervision in the lab - abil-
ity to manage a molecular laboratory - bioinformatic
or computational biology experience - cloning, primer
design and testing.
Conditions of employment The University of
Groningen oers a salary dependent on qual-
ications and work experience starting at
^ a:2;067grosspermonthuptoamaximumof ^a:2;791(scale 7; step 10)grosspermonthbyafulltimeemployment (1:0fte):ThispositionisdefinedaccordingtotheUFOfunctionprofile0Onderwijs 
=onderzoeksmedewerker0:Theparttime (0:8fte)appointmentisinitiallyforaprobationperiodofoneyearwiththeperspectiveofprolongation:
/60 EvolDir April 1, 2015
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHawaii Hilo ResTech
Regular, Full-Time, RCUH Non-Civil Service position
with the University of Hawaii at Hilo (UH Hilo), Tropi-
cal Conservation Biology and Environmental Sciences
(TCBES), Centers for Research Excellence in Science
and Technology (CREST) Program's Dynamic Interac-
tions of Symbioses and Environment (DISE) sub-project,
located in Hilo, Hawaii. Continuation of employment
is dependent upon program/operational needs, satis-
factory work performance, availability of funds, and
compliance with applicable Federal/State laws.
*MONTHLY SALARY:* Commensurate with qualica-
tions.
*DUTIES:* Prepares and analyzes genomic and tran-
scriptomic data. Prepares and analyzes metabolomic
and proteomics data. Prepares scientic manuscripts
for publication. Advises faculty, graduate students, and
undergraduate students in the analysis and manage-
ment of genomic data on various local and University
of Hawaii (UH) system data storage systems. Provides
eld and laboratory mentorship to TCBES Master's
students and UH Hilo undergraduates. Collaborates
with Principal Investigators (PIs) on technical writing
to include annual and/or interim reports, peer-reviewed
articles, and related works.
*PRIMARY QUALIFICATIONS: EDUCA-
TION/TRAINING:* Master's Degree from an
accredited college or university in Genetics, Bioinfor-
matics, or related eld. *EXPERIENCE: * Three to
ve (3-5) years of experience in conducting experiments
in genomics, genetics, proteomics, and/or metabolomics.
*ABIL/KNOW/SKILLS:* amiliarity with software
programs such as Trimmomatic, Trinity, Transdecoder,
Trinotate, Remote Scanning Electron Microscopy
(RSEM), JoinMap, and CLC Genomics Workbench, as
well as genome, transcriptome, and protein databases.
Ability to analyze genomic, transcriptomics, proteomics,
and metabolomics data from Next-Gen sequencing
technologies such as Ion-Torrent, 454 and Illumina.
Excellent written and oral communications skills *POL-
ICY AND/OR REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS: *
As a condition of employment, employee will be subject
to all applicable RCUH policies and procedures and,as applicable, subject to University of Hawaii's and/or
business entity's policies and procedures. Violation
of RCUH's, UH's, or business entity's policies and/or
procedures or applicable State or Federal laws and/or
regulations may lead to disciplinary action (including,
but not limited to possible termination of employment,
personal nes, civil and/or criminal penalties, etc.).
*SECONDARY QUALIFICATIONS:* PhD from an ac-
credited college or university in Genomics, Bioinformat-
ics, or related eld. Demonstrated experience supervis-
ing/mentoring research students. Experience working in
multi-investigator teams. Experience in successfully sub-
mitting peer reviewed articles in genomics, proteomics,
transcriptomics, and/or bioinformatics for publication.
*INQUIRIES: * Misaki Takabayashi 932-7595 (Hawaii).
*APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:* Please go to
www.rcuh.com, click on 'Employment'; select 'Apply'
and navigate to 'See Job Announcements and/or Apply
for a Job.' You must submit the following documents
online to be considered for the position: 1) Cover Letter,
2) Resume, 3) Salary History, 4) Supervisory References,
5) Copy of Degree(s)/Transcript(s)/Certicate(s). All
online applications must be submitted/received by the
closing date (11:59 P.M. Hawaii Standard Time/RCUH
receipt time) as stated on the job posting. If you do
not have access to our system and the closing date
is imminent, you may send additional documents to
rcuhhr@rcuh.com. If you have questions on the ap-
plication process and/or need assistance, please call
(808)956-8344.
EEO/AA Employer. Please apply before 04/04/2015
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology
Science and Technology Building 109 University of
Hawaii at Hilo Hilo, HI 96720
808-932-7178 donaldp@hawaii.edu
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/ http://hilo.hawaii.edu/-
depts/biology/ https://sites.google.com/a/hawaii.edu/-
price-lab-at-university-of-hawaii/ Donald Price
<donaldp@hawaii.edu >
UHelsinki Bioinformatics
The Department of Biosciences at the University of
Helsinki's Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences invites applications for aApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 61
PROFESSOR / TENURE-TRACK ASSISTANT PRO-
FESSOR in bioinformatics The position is shared be-
tween the Department of Biosciences, the Department
of Computer Science and the Institute of Biotechnology.
The duties of the assistant professor/professor include
the development of analysis methods for large sets of
genomic data, and the analysis of the data. The new
DNA and RNA based genome-wide sequencing analyses
require expertise in bioinformatics to handle the data
streams at the species, individual and cellular level so
that research groups on the Viikki Campus can fully
benet from the extensive data generated by the new
methods. Developing and teaching such expertise in
bioinformatics is important for the whole Viikki Cam-
pus, particularly the Department of Biosciences and the
Institute of Biotechnology. For the teaching in bioin-
formatics provided by the Department of Computer
Science on the Kumpula Campus, the eld of this po-
sition oers an important connection for the dialogue
between theory and practice.
SEE THE ADVERTISEMENT:
http://www.helsinki./recruitment/index.html?id=-
3D101212 Arild Husby, Assistant Professor Department
of Biosciences (Biocenter 3, oce 5415), University of
Helsinki PO box 65, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland
web: http://blogs.helsinki./husby/ mail: ar-
ild.husby@helsinki. oce phone: +358294157691
arild.husby@Helsinki.FI
UKansas Bioinformatics
Genome Analysis and Bioinformatics Specialist
The University of Kansas is recruiting a research scien-
tist with expertise in genomics and bioinformatics. The
position is associated with the NIH-funded K-INBRE
(Kansas IDeA Networks of Biomedical Research Excel-
lence) Bioinformatics Core, directed by Stuart Macdon-
ald.
We are seeking applications from dynamic, motivated
individuals interested in providing computational bi-
ology and statistical expertise to help KU researchers
develop and analyze genomics projects. The Bioinfor-
matics Specialist will work closely with the KU Genome
Sequencing Core facility to support investigators as they
design genome biology experiments, particularly those
that involve Illumina sequencing data. The user baseof the K-INBRE Bioinformatics Core is broad, and the
successful candidate can expect to work on a diverse
array of problems in a range of systems. The Bioinfor-
matics Specialist would also be able to develop their own
research program, mentored by, and collaborating with
the many KU research faculty with strong interests in
genome biology (for example, Justin Blumenstiel, John
Kelly, Erik Lundquist, Stuart Macdonald).
Required qualications: Masters in biology or computer
science; Solid understanding of Linux/Unix, and demon-
strated programming experience; A record of published,
peer-reviewed research. Preferred qualications include
a PhD in biology or computer science, and experience
with the analysis of next-generation sequencing data.
Queries about the position can be directed to Stuart
Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu), director of the facility. Fur-
ther details, and instructions on how to apply for the
position can be found at https://employment.ku.edu/-
sta/2962BR . The position is open and review of ap-
plications will begin on April 3 and continue until the
position is lled.
The K-INBRE Bioinformatics Core is closely associated
with the Departments of Molecular Biosciences and Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology, the Center for Computa-
tional Biology, and with the NIH COBRE-funded Center
for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways. The Univer-
sity has a strong group of model organism (Drosophila,
C. elegans) genetics and genomics researchers, and a
number of quantitative and evolutionary genetics labs.
The broad range of questions in evolutionary and com-
putational biology addressed by KU labs provides an
active, collaborative environment for research.
KU is an EO/AAE. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, national
origin, disability, genetic information or protected Vet-
eran status.
K-INBRE http://www.k-inbre.org/ Stuart Macdonald
http://molecularbiosciences.ku.edu/stuart-j-macdonald
Department of Molecular Biosciences http://-
molecularbiosciences.ku.edu/ Department of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology http://eeb.ku.edu/ Center
for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways http://-
cmadp.cobre.ku.edu/ KU Genome Sequencing Core
http://gsc.ku.edu/ ### Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald
Director, K-INBRE Bioinformatics Core Facility
Department of Molecular Biosciences 4043 Haworth
Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue University of Kansas
Lawrence KS 66045 ### oce: 785-864-5362 lab:
785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-5321 email: sjmac@ku.edu
###62 EvolDir April 1, 2015
sjmac@ku.edu
ULausanne parttime
EvolutionaryMicrobiol
Microbiologist at the University of Lausanne (50% to
60% employment)
The Department of Fundamental Microbiology at the
University of Lausanne in Switzerland is looking to hire
a research associate to work on the evolution of social
interactions between bacterial species. The goal of the
project is to disentangle tness eects over short and
evolutionary time-scales between ve species of bacteria
that are used for biodegradation. The candidate will be
employed part-time (50% to 60% ) for a period of 2 to
3 years.
The candidate should: - have obtained a Master's degree
in biology (or equivalent) - possess skills in basic micro-
biology (required), molecular biology and microscopy -
have an interest in researching microbial ecosystems -
have good English language skills (written and oral) -
be motivated, autonomous and organized - be open to
developing and learning new skills and techniques
The candidate's main responsibilities will be to: - design
and conduct basic microbiology experiments (bacterial
cultures, quantication, etc.) - genetic modication of
bacteria - design, conduct and follow long-term (months)
evolutionary experiments - design and conduct exper-
iments using microuidic devices attached to a micro-
scope - analyze data - train and supervise interns -
manage laboratory and biologicalmaterial
Employment will begin in July 2015 (exible)
If interested, please send: - a motivation letter - an up-
to-date CV - a copy of your latest graduation certicate
- contact information for 2 references
to: Sara Mitri Department of Fundamental Microbi-
ology (DMF) University of Lausanne, Switzerland E-
mail:sara.mitri@unil.ch Tel: +41(0)21 692 56 12 http://-
unil.ch/dmf/home/menuinst/research-units/mitri.html
Application deadline: April 30th, 2015.
Seeking to promote an equitable representation of men
and women among its sta, the University encourages
applications from women.
sara.mitri@unil.chUMiami MolResTech
MarineMammals
Job Title: Sr. Research Associate 1 Pay Grade: 8 Pay
Band Min / Max: $42,697.00 - $77,135.00 Position Num-
ber: 051168 Department / Hospital: COOP INST FOR
MARINE AND ATMOS STUDIES
A web-based version of this job advertisement can be
found at http://um.hodesiq.com/job detail.asp?JobID=
4997310&user id=&ViewAll The University of Miami is
committed to educating and nurturing students, creat-
ing knowledge, and providing service to our community
and beyond. We are leaders in the area of education,
scholarship, intercollegiate athletics and service. Come
join our team!
The Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric
Studies (CIMAS) of the University of Miami invites
applicants for a Sr. Research Associate I position in Ma-
rine Biology and Fisheries. We seek a research associate
to join our group and work as a laboratory technician
in the Marine Mammal Molecular Genetics laboratory.
The incumbents primary focus will be collecting and
analyzing DNA sequence and microsatellite data from
a variety of marine mammal populations and species.
Candidates for this position should have (1) a Masters
degree in Molecular Biology, Biology or related eld
(2) demonstrated experience with molecular biological
techniques, particularly DNA extractions and DNA se-
quencing or microsatellite genotyping methodologies, (3)
some experience with analyses of population structure
and diversity from genetic data, and (4) the ability and
desire to work as part of a collaborative team, (5) excel-
lent problem solving and critical thinking skills, good
organizational skills and the ability to plan daily duties.
The position will be located at the NOAA Fisheries
Southeast Fisheries Science Center Protected Resources
and Biodiversity Division located in Lafayette, LA. Start
date is exible, but ideally around 11 May 2015.
APPLY ONLINE FOR POSITION #051168 at:
www.miami.edu/careers. Curriculum Vitae and the
contact information for 3 people who can provide letters
of recommendation are required.
The University of Miami oers competitive salaries and
a comprehensive benets package including medical and
dental benets, tuition remission, vacation, paid holi-
days and much more.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 63
The University of Miami is an Equal Opportu-
nity Employer - Females/Minorities/Protected Veter-
ans/Individuals with Disabilities are encouraged to ap-
ply. Applicants and employees are protected from dis-
crimination based on certain categories protected by
Federal law.
Patricia Rosel - NOAA Federal
<patricia.rosel@noaa.gov >
UOklahoma ResAssistProf
Bioinformatics
Title of Position: Research Assistant Professor
University of Oklahomas Laboratories for Molecular
Anthropology and Microbiome Research is seeking a
Research Assistant Professor. Position requires PhD
Degree in Biology with knowledge in bioinformatics and
ancient biomolecules, NGS, and metagenomics. Duties
include research, service to the community, and teaching
university level courses in Anthropology and Biology.
Inquiries and applications (CV and 3 references) di-
rected to Dr. Cecil M. Lewis Research Assistant Pro-
fessor Search Molecular Anthropology Laboratories 101
David L. Boren Blvd. Norman, OK 73019.
\Lewis, Cecil M. Jr." <cmlewis@ou.edu >
UPennsylvania Informatics
The Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics at the
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Penn-
sylvania seeks candidates for several Full, Assistant,
and/or Associate Professor positions in the tenure track.
Rank will be commensurate with experience. Appli-
cants must have an Ph.D. and/or M.D. degree and have
demonstrated excellent qualications in education and
research.
The Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics (IBI)
at the Perelman School of Medicine of the University
of Pennsylvania seeks candidates for several Assistant,
Associate and/or Full Professor positions in the tenure
track. The IBI is enabled by a recent multi-million dol-
lar gift to expand faculty expertise, build computationalinfrastructure, and strengthen educational opportunities
across the spectrum of biomedical informatics. The IBI
will integrate informatics disciplines including bioinfor-
matics, translational bioinformatics, clinical informatics,
clinical research informatics, consumer health informat-
ics, and public health informatics.
Successful applicants will have strong training and skills
to conduct biomedical informatics research. Applicants
must have a Ph.D. and/or M.D. and have demonstrated
expertise in research and education. The faculty ap-
pointment will be in an appropriate department in the
Perelman School of Medicine. Applicants are expected
to establish robust independent funding for their re-
search program.
The University of Pennsylvania, founded by Benjamin
Franklin, is a world-class research institution located
near the center of Philadelphia. All of Penn's twelve
schools are located within walking distance of one an-
other. The Perelman School of Medicine at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania is one of the top ranked medical
schools in the nation for research and NIH funding.
Jason H. Moore, Ph.D., is Chair of the IBI Search
Committee at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine.
We seek candidates who embrace and reect diversity
in the broadest sense.
The University of Pennsylvania is an EOE. Minori-
ties/Women/Individuals with disabilities/Protected Vet-
erans are encouraged to apply.
Apply for this position online at: https://-
www.med.upenn.edu/apps/faculty ad/index.php/-
g/d3917
Sarah Tishko, Ph.D. David and Lyn Silfen Uni-
versity Professor Departments of Genetics and
Biology University of Pennsylvania Tel: 215-
746-2670 tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu http://-
www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/
tishko@mail.med.upenn.edu
USussex ResearchTech 2 SocialBees
RESEARCH TECHNICIANS (2 POSTS) IN INSECT
BEHAVIOUR (SHORT-TERM) Fixed term for 3-4
months, full time Salary range: starting at $20,198
and rising to $23,386 per annum. It is normal to ap-
point at the rst point of the salary scale. Closing date64 EvolDir April 1, 2015
for applications: 13 April 2015 Expected start date : 1
May 2015
We seek two enthusiastic, self-motivated research tech-
nicians with an interest in insect behavioural ecology to
assist with eldwork and labwork for 3 or 4 months in
the research group of Professor Jeremy Field at Sussex
University (http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/).
The work will involve helping a postdoctoral researcher
to carry out eldwork on small colonies of bees/wasps,
as well as a range of labwork.
Successful applicants will preferably have a degree or
equivalent in a relevant subject and an interest in animal
behaviour/entomology. Demonstrated experience with
the study of animal behaviour (especially social insects),
and experience of eldwork with insects would be useful.
Some experience of biological eldwork is essential.
Applicants should send a CV, a covering letter explain-
ing their suitability for the post, a statement of the
applicants availability for interview at Sussex University
during 21-28 April 2015, and contact details (including
email addresses) of 2-3 referees who would be available
to provide references before interview. Please also pro-
vide clear statements concerning (a) the earliest date
when the applicant would be available to start work
after mid-April 2015, (b) whether the applicant has a
full, clean driving licence; (c) that the applicant is not
colour-blind (see Person Specication below). Applica-
tions that do not contain this information may not be
considered.
Informal enquiries may be made to Professor Jeremy
Field (j.eld@sussex.ac.uk).
Please note that the full application, including CV, cov-
ering letter and completed standard application form
should be sent to lifescirecruitment@sussex.ac.uk
Closing date for applications: 13 April 2015
Interviews will be held between 21 and 28 April 2015 at
Sussex University
For full details and how to apply see http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/aboutus/jobs/080 The University
of Sussex is committed to equality of opportunity
Professor Jeremy Field School of Life Sciences, John
Maynard Smith Building, University of Sussex, Falmer,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK
j.eld@sussex.ac.uk http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/-
eldlab/ Tel 01273 877135
Jeremy Field <J.Field@sussex.ac.uk >UVermont LabTech
EvolutionaryGenomics
Lab technician in Evolutionary/Ecological Genomics
The Pespeni Lab in the Department of Biology at the
University of Vermont is looking to hire an exceptionally
motivated, organized, and skilled individual to work as
a population genomics technician in our new research
lab. We use genomics, developmental biology, and phys-
iology to understand the underpinnings of resilience and
vulnerability of marine species in the context of com-
plex natural ecosystems, particularly changing climate
conditions.
The technician will assist the PI in managing the lab
and conducting research, with the opportunity for co-
authorship on scientic publications. Specic duties will
include ordering supplies and equipment, maintaining
equipment, processing samples for genetic and phys-
iology assays, microscopy, preparing RNA and DNA
samples for sequencing, performing basic data analyses,
training students, and maintaining an organized, safe
and productive lab environment. The lab oers an excit-
ing, integrative and supportive work environment, with
opportunities to be involved in a wide range of research
projects.
Minimum qualications:
V A bachelors degree in a related eld or an equiva-
lent combination of education and relevant experience
in population genetics, molecular biology, or molecular
ecology
V Experience preparing reagents/buers, gel elec-
trophoresis, and PCR
V Exceptional organizational skills and strong ability to
accomplish tasks independently
V Ability to master detailed laboratory procedures
V Excellent communication and computer skills
V The ability to lift at least thirty pounds
Preferred Qualications
V Experience with aquaculture of marine organisms
either as a hobbyist or professionally
V Familiarity with scientic computing languages such
as R, Python, or Perl, and working on command line
V Strong knowledge in evolutionary biology and marineApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 65
biology
To apply, please visit the University of Vermont Jobs
website https://www.uvmjobs.com/ and search for Post-
ing # S231PO. Please submit a resume, three (3) letters
of reference, and a cover letter that highlights your pre-
vious experience in the laboratory. Review of applicants
will begin immediately and continue until position is
lled. The position will ideally begin in May.
This is a full-time position, initially appointed for a
period of 12 months with benets. The position can
be extended for at least one year depending on perfor-
mance.
More information about the Pespeni Lab can be found
at https://blog.uvm.edu/mpespeni/. Please contact
Melissa Pespeni (mpespeni@uvm.edu) if you have any
questions.
Melissa Pespeni, Ph.D. Assistant Professor University
of Vermont Department of Biology Marsh Life Sciences,
Rm 326A 109 Carrigan Drive Burlington, Vermont
05405
Lab website: *http://blog.uvm.edu/mpespeni/*
Melissa Pespeni <mpespeni@uvm.edu >
WillametteU VisitingProfessorship
The Department of Biology at Willamette University
welcomes applications for a non-tenure-track, visiting
assistant professor position to begin August 2015. The
appointment will be for one year, with potential for
renewal up to three years depending on successful teach-
ing.
We are seeking a broadly trained biologist who is
strongly committed to excellence in both teaching and
research in a liberal arts college environment. The suc-
cessful candidate will be expected to teach 6 course units
a year (1.0 unit/lecture, 0.5 unit/lab). The teaching
assignments will include an introductory non-majors
biology course (BIOL 110 Principles of Biology) and
an introductory course for biology majors in (Biology
125 Ecology, Evolution, and Diversity). The candidate
will also be asked to teach intermediate and advanced
courses in his or her area of expertise. These might
include: General Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Molec-
ular Ecology, or Behavioral Ecology. Course sizes range
from 12 to 48 students.
Teaching in our department is inspired by Vision andChange (NSF, AAC&U, 2011) and research training is
deeply imbedded in the curriculum at all levels. The De-
partmental culture encourages visiting faculty to seek ex-
tramural funding for research and pedagogical projects.
Visiting faculty are also eligible to apply for department
funding to support their teaching and scholarship.
About Biology at Willamette: Through a research-rich
curriculum that aords high-impact student engage-
ment, our students learn how to discover knowledge
for themselves, becoming life-long learners and creators.
60% of our graduates enter careers in science and tech-
nology, including MD and PhD programs at the nation's
leading research institutes. Our faculty aspire to be out-
standing teacher-scholars, committed to excellence in
teaching and research. Since 2005, the eight faculty
members in Biology have received 41 research and edu-
cation grants totaling $3.7 million, including two NSF
CAREER awards. These awards have provided research
experiences for 103 undergraduates.
For more information about the Department of Biol-
ogy, please visit http://www.willamette.edu/cla/biology
. Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Ecology, Evolution-
ary Biology, or a related eld; prior teaching experience
is preferred but not required. A.B.D candidates will
be considered, but the Ph.D. must be completed before
beginning the appointment.
Prior teaching experience is preferred but not required.
To apply go to: https://jobs.willamette.edu/postings/-
1531 The following materials will need to be uploaded
as part of your online application:
1. A cover letter describing your interest in the posi-
tion. 2. A copy of your CV 3. A teaching statement
describing your teaching philosophy and practice, and
identifying advanced courses that you would be inter-
ested in teaching. 4. A research statement describing
your current and future research goals, and how you
might involve undergraduates in your work. 5. A diver-
sity statement describing your experience with diverse
populations and importance of diversity in teaching and
research communities. 6. Copies of your graduate tran-
scripts. 7. Three reference letters that address both
research and teaching potential.*
*As part of the online application, please include three
references and notify them that they will be contacted
electronically. The email from Human Resources will in-
clude a link where they will be able to submit a letter of
recommendation/reference on your behalf. Please note
letters will only be accessible to the search committee.
Inquiries may be addressed to:
David Craig, Search Chair Biology Department66 EvolDir April 1, 2015
dpcraig@willamette.edu.
Open until nalists are selected. For full consideration,
all application materials should be received by March
30, 2014.
If you need assistance applying for this posi-
tion please contact Human Resources, human-
resources@willamette.edu or 503.370.6210
Willamette University, founded in 1842, is the old-
est institution of higher education in the Far West.
Willamette University is a selective residential liberal
arts college in the heart of the Willamette Valley. Situ-
ated in Oregon's capital city, Willamette includes the
College of Liberal Arts (approximately 2000 students),
and graduate programs in Law and Management. Theacademic year is divided into two semesters, beginning
in late August and ending in May. The academic un-
dergraduate prole is competitive, with a GPA of 3.75
and average composite SAT scores of 1850. Recent stu-
dents have received prestigious NSF, Watson, Truman,
Fulbright, and Goldwater fellowships.
Salem is located in the center of the Willamette Valley,
approximately an hour's drive from the Pacic Coast,
the Cascade Mountains, and the cities of Portland and
Eugene. To learn more about Willamette University,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Other
Australia Cairns VolFieldAssistant FairyWrens . . . . 66
Cairns Australia VolFieldAssist FairyWrens . . . . . . . 67
EvoDevoEcoNetwork Funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
GainesvilleFL VolFieldAssist Anole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
Gene Flow Rates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
LiveStreaming EvolMedMeeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Namibia VolFieldAssist BaboonEvolution . . . . . . . . . 69
NESCent 2015 VideoContest 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Omenn Prize winner announced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70RohlfMedal 2015 CallNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
SenseOfLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
SocSystBiology GraduateStudentAward . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Transport blood samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Transport blood samples answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
UMichigan BioStation SummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Australia Cairns VolFieldAssistant
FairyWrens
Volunteer eld assistants:
We are looking for eld assistants to help expand andmonitor a colour-banded population of lovely fairy-wrens
in Cairns (Queensland), Australia for a study on female
ornamentation.
Time periods: June or September 2015 (3 to 6 months).
Duties include regular censusing of colour-banded birds,
searching for and monitoring nests, mist-netting, record-
ing song and measuring colouration, behavioural ob-
servations, video analysis, and data proong. WorkingApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 67
days are long, with early starts six days a week. Enthu-
siasm, self-motivation and organisation, and a strong
work ethic are a must.
Qualications: experience monitoring colour-banded
birds, nest-searching, and mist-netting. Good knowl-
edge of English is a requirement. Must also be early
riser, physically t, able to work in extreme weather
conditions, and enjoy basic shared living conditions.
Having experience in behavioural observations and a
driving licence is a plus but not a requirement.
Accommodation is provided, but assistants cover travel
to the site and their own food costs. The project will
reimburse up to AUD$750/mo towards receipted food
and travel expenses. For more information contact: Ana
Leitao (avitorinoATstudent.unimelb.edu.au).
To apply, please email a letter outlining previous relevant
eld research experience, and a CV including names and
contact information for 3 referees. Applications received
until the 9th of April 2015 will receive full consideration.
Later applications may be considered.
Ana V. Leit~ ao PhD candidate School of BioSciences
(Building 147) University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC
3010 Australia
anamvleitao@gmail.com avi-
torino@student.unimelb.edu.au
Australia: +61 450 643 982 Portugal: +351 964 479 857
anamvleitao@gmail.com
Cairns Australia VolFieldAssist
FairyWrens
*Volunteer eld assistants:*
We are looking for eld assistants to help expand and
monitor a colour-banded population of lovely fairy-wrens
in Cairns (Queensland), Australia for a study on female
ornamentation. Time periods: June or September 2015
(3 to 6 months). Duties include regular censusing of
colour-banded birds, searching for and monitoring nests,
mist-netting, recording song and measuring colouration,
behavioural observations, video analysis, and data proof-
ing. Working days are long, with early starts six days
a week. Enthusiasm, self-motivation and organisation,
and a strong work ethic are a must. Qualications: ex-
perience monitoring colour-banded birds, nest-searching,
and mist-netting. Good knowledge of English is a re-
quirement. Must also be early riser, physically t, ableto work in extreme weather conditions, and enjoy ba-
sic shared living conditions. Having experience in be-
havioural observations and a driving licence is a plus
but not a requirement.
Accommodation is provided, but assistants cover travel
to the site and their own food costs. The project will
reimburse up to AUD$750/mo towards receipted food
and travel expenses. For more information contact: Ana
Leitao (avitorinoATstudent.unimelb.edu.au). To apply,
please email a letter outlining previous relevant eld
research experience, and a CV including names and
contact information for 3 referees. Applications received
until the 9th of April 2015 will receive full consideration.
Later applications may be considered.
Ana V. Leit~ ao PhD candidate School of BioSciences
(Building 147) University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC
3010 Australia
anamvleitao@gmail.com avi-
torino@student.unimelb.edu.au
anamvleitao@gmail.com
EvoDevoEcoNetwork Funding
RESEARCH FUNDING OPPORTUNITY:
Dear Colleague,
This email is to remind you that the upcoming deadline
for research exchange grants from the Evo-Devo-Eco
Network (EDEN) is April 30, 2015. EDEN is funded by
the National Science Foundation Research Coordination
(http://edenrcn.com/).
One of EDENs major goals is to enable graduate stu-
dents, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty to undertake
research exchanges in the eld of Evo-Devo-Eco, in order
to develop or share techniques, protocols and tools for
use with emerging model systems.
Please note that the updated eligibility for EDEN fund-
ing is as follows: Researchers based anywhere in the
world can apply for funding to visit labs in the US.
Researchers based in the US are eligible for funding to
visit labs anywhere in the world.
This spring EDEN will award multiple research ex-
changes to be held in 2015-2016. Each exchange will
consist of an award of up to $3,000 per researcher to-
ward travel, lodging and subsistence costs. You can nd
out more about this program at http://edenrcn.com/-68 EvolDir April 1, 2015
funding/index.html. If you know of outstanding lab
personnel who would be interested, please forward this
announcement to them.
You can read more about EDEN's activities and oppor-
tunities at http://www.edenrcn.com, where you will be
able to obtain protocols for evo-devo-eco work developed
with EDEN funding.
Please feel free to email edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu with
questions about the program, and forward this email to
colleagues who you think would be interested in EDEN.
Best wishes,
Cassandra Extavour
EDEN Grants <edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu >
GainesvilleFL VolFieldAssist Anole
*Field Volunteer Needed for Anole Research in
Gainesville, FL*
I am looking for a eld assistant to conduct behavioural
research on *Anolis sagrei *in Gainesville, FL, from
March 15 to May 15 (dates are somewhat exible). The
project is part of my dissertation research at Harvard
University. Daily activities include searching for, captur-
ing, marking, and observing lizards as well as collecting
habitat data. We will work long hours on most days
(beginning 7-8am). Applicants should be prepared for
hot and humid work conditions. Applicants must be
comfortable handling lizards, have a good work ethic,
and should be adaptable to changing plans. This oppor-
tunity is unpaid, but all expenses (airfare, food, lodging,
and other eld-related expenses) will be covered.
If interested, please contact Ambika Ka-
math:ambikamath@gmail.com, with a brief letter
describing why you are interested in this position and
any relevant research experience along with your CV
and the names and contact information of a professional
reference whom I may contact by email. I will review
applications as they arrive until the positions are lled.
Ambika Kamath Ph.D. Candidate Losos Lab, Dept. of
Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Univer-
sity www.ambikamath.wordpress.com Ambika Kamath
<ambikamath@gmail.com >Gene Flow Rates
Dear Evoldir,
We are analyzing a dataset sampled from several ge-
ographic locations (let's say A,B,C,D,E,F). We would
like to infer if there is evidence for a specic direction
of gene ow and determine the gene ow rates... e.g.
B{>C{>A{>D{>E{>F and if possible to exclude some
other scenarios e.g. that there is somewhere a source
population (perhaps unsampled) that contributed genes
to each of the (sampled) sub-populations. Using Ap-
proximate Bayesian Computation (ABC), we can either
infer parameters from a specic scenario, or do a model
selection... I'm wondering however, if there is any soft-
ware or theory that will allow a general inference of the
\migration history" or gene ow history.
Thanks a lot in advance Pavlos
P.S. answers will be submitted back to Evoldir
{
Pavlos Pavlidis, PhD
Foundation for Research and Technology - Hellas Insti-
tute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology Iikolaou
Plastira 100, Vassilika Vouton GR - 711 10, Heraklion,
Crete, Greece
pavlidisp@gmail.com
LiveStreaming EvolMedMeeting
*The nal program for the inaugural meeting of the
International Society for Evolution, Medicine, & Public
Health is now available online. * http://issuu.com/-
evmedasu/docs/program forweb?e=3D15964791/-
11852215 All talks on Thursday March 19 will be
live streamed at http://www.ustream.tv/asutv <
http://issuu.com/evmedasu/docs/program forweb?e=-
3D15964791/11852215 >The time zone is the same
as California, so 3 hours earlier that EDT, and 7
hours earlier than London UK. *Thursday* *At ASU
Memorial Union* *Ventena Room*6:30 7:00Continental
Breakfast7:30 8:00Barbara Natterson- Horowitz, UCLA
Zoobiquity and Evolutionary Medicine Introduction byApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 69
Charlie Nunn8:15 8:30 8:45Short break Chair: Gillian
Bentley9:00Joe Alcock, University of New Mexico,
\Identifying normal function in abnormal results:
Reaction norms lead to a new normal for medical
practice"9:15Gillian Pepper, Newcastle University, \
Extrinsic mortality risk and socioeconomic dierences
in health behaviour: observational and experimental evi-
dence "9:30Harvey Kliman, Yale University, \The pelvis
skull conict: why trophoblast inclusions are a marker
of autism and may be the evolutionary basis of human
intelligence." 9:45Anne Stone, Arizona State University,
\Mycobacterium tuberculosis: origins and evolutionary
history of a major pathogen. "10:00Martin H ausler,
University of Zurich, \Are musculoskelatal disorders
evolutionary trade-os of bipedalism"10:15Break10:30
Chair: Daniel Lieberman10:45Welcome remarks by
Dean Garcia-Pichel and Manfred Laubichler (on
behalf of Provost Page)11:00Marlene Zuk, Univer-
sity of Minnesota, \Evolution in sickness and in
health"11:15Frank Ruhli, University of Zurich, \Evo-
lutionary medicine as part of the medical curriculum
in Switzerland and Australia: a qualitative and
quantitative feedback "11:30Mark Schwartz, NYU
School of Medicine, \Integrating evolutionary science
into medical education "11:45Michael Muehlenbein,
Indiana University, \Survey on evolution in health
education" 12:00Lunch at Memorial Union at ASU12:15
12:30 12:45 13:00Harvey Fineberg President, Gordon
and Betty Moore Foundation Keynote: \Evolution in
Medicine: Past, Present, and Future"13:15Introduction
by: Randolph Nesse13:30 13:45Short break Chair:
Robert Perlman14:00Michael Gurven, UC Santa
Barbara, \Costs of reproduction in a high fertility
and mortality population"14:15Grazyna Jasienska,
Jagiellonian University, \Trade-os between reproduc-
tion and aging: biomarkers, confounders and genetic
factors"14:30Katie Hinde, Harvard University, \Insights
into co-evolution of milk and microbes: subsistence
strategy predicts glycan prole in breast milk among
diverse human populations"14:45Daniel Lieberman,
Harvard University, \An evolutionary medical perspec-
tive on shoes"15:00Allen Rodrigo, NEScent, \Neutral
models of microbiome evolution"15:15Break15:30
Chair: Ajit Varki15:45Sudhir Kumar, iGEM Tem-
ple, \Phylomedicine: Evolutionary Lessons and
Solutions for Genomic Medicine"16:00David Haig,
Harvard University, \Microchimerism and inclusive t-
ness"16:15Elizabeth Uhl, University of Georgia \Origin
of canine distemper as a reverse zoonosis from human
measles: insights from history, evolution and studies of
codon usage bias"16:30Bernard Crespi, Simon Frazer
University, \Imagination as a core diametric phenotype
of autism spectrum and psychotic-aective spectrum
conditions: evidence from schizophrenia genetic riskscores "16:45Jacobus (Koos) Boomsma, University
of Copenhagen, \Parent-of-origin gene-dosage eects
in the womb may aect physical and mental health
later in life "17:00Baba Brinkman-Rap Preview &
RapUp17:15Flash talks Chair: Marlene Zuk17:30
17:45Poster session/ Appetizers18:00La Paz & Cochise
rooms18:15 18:30 18:45 19:00 19:15Education and
Outreach Committee Meeting19:30at Engrained Patio
at the Memorial Union 19:45 20:00 20:15
Randolph M. Nesse, MD <http://randolphnesse.com/
>The ASU Center for Evolution & Medicine <
https://sites.google.com/a/asu.edu/cemph/ >Full
ISEMPH Conference Program available here <
http://issuu.com/evmedasu/docs/program forweb?e=-
3D15964791/11852215 >
rmnesse@gmail.com
Namibia VolFieldAssist
BaboonEvolution
Hello,
We are recruiting eld assistants for the 2015 eld sea-
son on the Tsaobis Baboon Project. We have prevously
used this website to annunce the position and would
like to do it again since we found it very useful. The ad-
vert and the \graphical ad" are written (and attached)
below. We would be so grateful if you could post this
announcement on the EvolDir website.
Kind Regards,
Claudia Martina Luna
Large Animal Research Group Department of Zoology
University of Cambridge Downing Street Cambridge
CB2 3EJ E: cm798@cam.ac.uk
*Tsaobis Baboon Project Volunteer Field Assistants*
The Tsaobis Baboon Project is a long-term study of
desert baboons in Namibia. Based at the Institute of
Zoology (the research arm of the Zoological Society
of London), and aliated with the Gobabeb Research
and Training Centre (Namibia), our aim is to carry
out fundamental research in behavioural ecology and
population ecology, and to inform conservation policy
and practice for social species.
We are seeking to appoint four 3-month volunteer eld-
worker positions between 1 July and 30 September 2015.
The eldwork will primarily involve daily follows of ba-70 EvolDir April 1, 2015
boon troops on foot, collecting behavioural data from
individually recognisable animals and their associated
ecological conditions. Further information about the
Tsaobis Baboon Project, the volunteer eldworker posi-
tions, and the application procedure can be found on
the Project's webpages:
*www.zsl.org/science/research/baboon *The deadline
for applications is 9am Tuesday 24th March 2015*
claudia.martinala@gmail.com
NESCent 2015 VideoContest 2
NESCent/HHMI/SSE Evolution Film Festival/Video
Contest
Scientists and science educators of all stripes - students,
postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science commu-
nicators - are invited to enter the Fifth Annual Evolution
Video Competition, sponsored by the National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent), Howard Hughes
Medical Institute (HHMI) and the Society for the Study
of Evolution (SSE). To enter, please submit a video
that explains a fun fact, key concept, compelling ques-
tion, or exciting area of evolution research in THREE
MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own research,
and should be suitable for use in a classroom (K-12, un-
dergraduate, graduate...your choice). Videos should be
both informative and entertaining. (In other words, no
taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint presentations!)
Animations, music videos, and mini documentaries are
all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2015 Evolution
meeting in Guaruj a, Brazil. (You do not need to attend
the conference in order to enter a video.)
In the past, our rst-place and runner-up prizes were
$1,000 credit and $500 credit, respectively, towards
travel to a future conference. This year, the prizes
will be the same amount, but in cold, hard, cash-money,
baby! (Well...actually, in the form of a check, but you
get the idea.) So make a video, and we'll make it rain!
The deadline to submit your video(s) is SUNDAY, MAY
31st, 2015 (11:00 PM, EST).
For more information (and to see entries from previ-
ous years) please visit lmfestival.nescent.org or contact
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Omenn Prize winner announced
The $5000 Gilbert Omenn prize for the best paper in
evolutionary medicine in 2014 goes to, \Escape from bac-
terial iron piracy through rapid evolution of transferrin"
by Matthew Barber and Nels Elde from the University of
Utah. The article appeared in Science 346:1362-6, 2014.
First author Matthew Barber, a postdoctoral student,
will receive the prize and present a talk on March 21 at
the 2015 ISEMPH meeting in Tempe Arizona. http://-
evmedmeeting.org The prize is made possible by a gen-
erous donation from Gilbert Omenn and is awarded by
the International Society for Evolution, Medicine, and
Public Health for best article published each year on a
topic related to evolution in the context of medicine and
public health. Full details at http://evmedreview.com/-
?p=2504 and at http://evolutionarymedicine.org
The Prize Committee \Sarah Tishko, Joe Alcock, Noah
Rosenberg, and Alison Galvani" also selected three pa-
pers for honorable mention. They are listed below in
alphabetical order.
Byars, Sean G., Stephen C. Stearns, and Jacobus J.
Boomsma. \Opposite risk patterns for autism and
schizophrenia are associated with normal variation
in birth size: phenotypic support for hypothesized
diametric gene-dosage eects." Proceedings of the
Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 281.1794 (2014):
20140604.been dicult to unravel using standard ap-
proaches.
Pennings, Pleuni S., Sergey Kryazhimskiy, and John
Wakeley. \Loss and recovery of genetic diversity in
adapting populations of HIV." PLoS genetics10.1 (2014):
e1004000.
Warinner, Christina, et al. \Pathogens and host immu-
nity in the ancient human oral cavity." Nature genetics
46.4 (2014): 336-344.
Please join the Society in congratulating the authors
of the winning and runner up articles. Nominations
for next year's prize will be received starting early in
2016. The Society also sponsors the $5,000 George C.
Williams Prize for the best paper published each yearApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 71
in the Society's agship journal, Evolution, Medicine
and Public Health. All papers published in the jour-
nal in 2015 will have author's fees waived and will be
automatically entered into the Prize competition.
Randolph M. Nesse President, The International Society
for Evolution, Medicine, & Public Health
rmnesse@gmail.com
RohlfMedal 2015 CallNominations
2015 CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
The Rohlf Medal
The Rohlf Medal was established in 2006 by the family
and friends of F. James Rohlf to mark his 70th birthday.
He has been a longtime Stony Brook University faculty
member and is currently Emeritus Distinguished Pro-
fessor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution, and
Research Professor in the Department of Anthropology.
Recipients of the Rohlf Medal will be recognized for
excellence in their body of work on the development of
new morphometric methods or for their applications in
the biomedical sciences, including evolutionary biology,
population biology, physical anthropology, and medicine.
The term 'morphometrics' is intended to include high-
dimensional pattern analyses of biological shape, espe-
cially those that analyze shape in a comprehensive way,
or of covariation of shape with other variables. The
award can recognize advances in the mathematical or
statistical theory underlying morphometric methods,
new software that implements or visualizes new meth-
ods, or specic new biological ndings that rely crucially
on contemporary morphometric methods and represent
major advances.
Candidates for the Rohlf Medal may be self-nominated
or nominated by others. They must possess a Ph.D.
degree or the equivalent.
The winning candidate must agree to attend the award
ceremony in person in order to accept the Rohlf Medal
and then deliver the award lecture.
Nomination packages should include,
(1) a description of the body of work (not to exceed two
pages) on which the candidacy is based,
(2) reprints of no more than three relevant papers and/or
software products,
(3) a curriculum vitae, and(4) the names and addresses of three referees.
Nominating packages should be uploaded to the
Rohlf Medal website (http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/-
rohlf medal/apply.html) and received by 5 pm, EST, 15
July 2015 to be assured of full consideration.
The successful candidate will receive the Rohlf Medal
and a cash prize at Stony Brook University, planned
for October 26th, 2015. She or he will deliver a lecture
that is appropriate for a broad audience, ranging from
the exact sciences to the humanities, concerning the
morphometric methodology, software, or ndings for
which the Rohlf Medal was awarded
Paul O'Higgins Professor of Anatomy Centre for
Anatomical & Human Sciences Department of Archae-
ology and Hull York Medical School University of York
Heslington York YO10 5DD U.K.
T: +44 (0) 1904 328872 E: paul.ohiggins@hyms.ac.uk W:
http://research.hyms.ac.uk/researchcentres/cahs Paul
O'Higgins <Paul.O'Higgins@hyms.ac.uk >
SenseOfLife
Zimmer and Emlen's Evolution: Making Sense of Life,
Second Edition
I'm pleased to announce that in August we'll be pub-
lishing the new edition of Carl Zimmer and Douglas
Emlen's Evolution: Making Sense of Life. The second
edition is thoroughly revised with new research and ar-
resting illustrations and includes, free of charge, a study
guide by Alison Perkins that helps students solidify their
understanding of the key concepts of evolution.
The book has been highly praised. Neil Shubin (U.
Chicago) says that \Zimmer and Emlen have produced
a book that not only conveys the explanatory power of
evolution, but is also permeated with the joy of doing
science." Matthew Miller (UC Riverside) says \Zimmer
is the master of taking current primary literature and
making it come alive." Lena Strewe (Rutgers University)
says \I think evolution has never before been presented
with such clarity and in this engaging way to college
students...."
If you teach an evolution course for biology majors, we'd
be delighted to send you an exam copy. If you'd like to
consider the book for the fall 2015 semester, please let
us know so we can send you pre-publication materials.
The book will be ready in plenty of time for fall classes.72 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Sincerely,
Ben Roberts
Ben Roberts <info@roberts-publishers.com >
SocSystBiology
GraduateStudentAward
SSB Graduate Student Research Award
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) announces
the 2015 annual Graduate Student Research Award com-
petition. PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS
APRIL 24, 2015.
The purpose of these awards is to assist students in
the initiation (FIRST TWO YEARS ONLY) of their
systematics projects and in the collection of prelimi-
nary data to pursue additional sources of support (e.g.,
Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants from the
National Science Foundation) or to enhance dissertation
research (e.g., by visiting additional eld collection sites
or museums). Applicants may be from any country, but
MUST be members of SSB, and are advised to join the
Society as soon as possible to facilitate their applications
(to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6). Previous
awardees may not re-apply, but previous applicants who
were not selected for funding are encouraged to re-apply.
Only students in their rst two years of a degree pro-
gram are eligible. Awards range between $1200 - $2000
and approximately 10-15 awards will be made.
How to Apply: applicants must submit
1. a curriculum vitae (maximum one page); 2. brief
research proposal including objectives, methods, signi-
cance, and schedule (maximum of three single-spaced
pages including literature cited and any gures and ta-
bles); 3. budget and budget justication (maximum one
page); 4. and arrange for two reference letters; one letter
must be from the student's current graduate advisor.
All application materials must be in electronic format.
Applicants and those writing reference letters are re-
quired to use pdf format to minimize diculties in le
transfer. Applicants should send all materials (except
reference letters) in a SINGLE pdf le. Letters of ref-
erence should be sent separately by the referees in pdf
format or in the text of an e-mail; please include the
FULL NAME OF APPLICANT in reference letters.
Please email all application materials and queries to
Sean Brady, Chair of the SSB Awards Committee atbradys@si.edu. IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE E-
MAIL, PLEASE INDICATE \Student Research" FOL-
LOWED BY FIRST INITIAL AND LAST NAME.
To be considered for this year's award, ALL applica-
tion materials, INCLUDING letters of recommendation,
must be received electronically no later than April 24,
2015.
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=-
node/22) for additional submission instructions. Ques-
tions via email may be addressed to Sean Brady
(bradys@si.edu).
Sean Brady Awards Director Society of Systematic Bi-
ologists bradys@si.edu 202-633-0997
\Brady, Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >
Software DAMBE update
Dear All,
I have uploaded a new version of DAMBE with three
additional functions:
1. Phylogenetics with pairwise alignment: Pairwise
alignment by dynamic programming is guaranteed to
generate the optimal alignment (or at least one of them),
but getting good multiple alignment is dicult with
highly diverged sequences. One way to avoid this prob-
lem is to use pairwise alignment only to reconstruct
phylogenetic trees. The greatest advantage of distance-
based methods is in their capability to build trees based
on pairwise alignment only, although this advantage is
rarely realized because all major software packages for
phylogenetic analysis do not implement this method.
To access this function, read in a le with unaligned
sequences, and click 'Phylogenetics jPhylogenetics with
pairwise alignment'. The function incorporates pairwise
alignment of nucleotide, amino acid or codon sequences
with frequently used evolutionary distances (indepen-
dently and simultaneously estimated distances based on
F84 and TN93) and tree-building algorithms (UPGMA,
neighbor-joing, FastME, etc.). This function should
give you surprisingly good trees with highly diverged
sequences (amino acid sequences are recommended for
extremely diverged sequences). Keep in mind that, while
distance-based methods are fast, pairwise alignment is
slow.
2. I have added multiple correspondence analysis (MCA)
for aligned short sequence motifs. These functions areApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 73
useful to identify site associations and can be accessed by
clicking 'Bioinformatics jmotif MCA'. You may also use
'BioinformaticsjMotif PCA' (for principle component
analysis).
3. I have added more codon tables from more than 100
species to facilitate the use of the new Index of Transla-
tion Elongation which extended CAI to accommodate
background mutation bias (Xia X. 2015. A major con-
troversy in codon-anticodon adaptation resolved by a
new codon usage index. Genetics 199:573-579)
For those not familiar with DAMBE, it is a
comprehensive software package for data analy-
sis in molecular biology and evolution, avail-
able free for Windows/Linux/Mac at: http://-
dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp Best Xuhua http://-
dambe.bio.uottawa.ca http://www.biology.uottawa.ca/-
bio/professor details.html?en/31 Xuhua Xia Professor
Biology Department University of Ottawa Rm 278 Gen-
dron 30 Marie Curie, Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5
Tel: (613) 562-5800 ext 6886
Xuhua Xia <Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
Transport blood samples
Dear all,
I would very much appreciate some pointers for how to
transport blood samples stored in ethanol internation-
ally (from UK to New Zealand). I had been intending
to bring a chilly bin full of samples on dry ice* / ice
packs on a ight from the UK to New Zealand with
me, however I have recently become aware that many
(all?) airlines classify ethanol as a dangerous good**
and restrict the total volume that can be checked in.
According to FAA guidelines (which I'm not sure apply
globally, but Air New Zealand's guidelines seem very
similar) I think you are not allowed more than 1L of
total ethanol.
>From what I have read, the alternative is to send as a
dangerous good with one of the international carriers
e.g. Fedex, however this is likely to be prohibitively ex-
pensive. An online quote suggests the chilly bin we have
in mind would cost around NZD $2,500 to transport,
and this is before I've even mentioned the 'hazardous'
contents.
Any help would be very much appreciated!
With many thanks, Anna Santure University of Auck-land, New Zealand
*also a dangerous good... **apparently litres of duty
free gin, vodka, wine and rum are not dangerous goods
though!
asanture@gmail.com
Transport blood samples answers
Dear all, I would like to thank all of you in the evoldir
community for your very helpful replies to my question
on sending blood samples in ethanol internationally. We
are still deciding exactly what to do, but I had some
very good suggestions to send the blood+ethanol by
courier (or even normal post) without the dry ice / ice
packs, which would mean the packaging would be much
smaller and lighter and hence cheaper. Provided IATA
guidelines are followed*, some people had good experi-
ence taking samples as checked luggage, however it was
pointed out to me that in the end the pilot has a nal
decision of whether to accept the luggage, even if all
of the paperwork is in order (which could end up with
quite a stressful experience at the airport!). Others had
suggestions for alternative storage solutions including
lysis buer and RNAlater. And I had many people
emphasising the importance of checking the regulations
and ensuring that all the paperwork at both ends of the
journey is prepared thoroughly. I have compiled all the
replies below, following a copy of my initial message.
Thank you again for your excellent ideas! Very best
wishes, Anna asanture@gmail.com
*from my understanding, in my case where we have
eppendorfs of ~1mL of blood, these should be put in
a hard container (i.e. an eppendorf box), sealed in a
plastic bag, an absorbant material wrapped around and
then sealed inside another plastic bag, and then up to
10 of these boxes (i.e. <1L total ethanol) can be pack-
aged together to form one package for either posting via
airmail or checking in as checked luggage. Airline's own
guidelines may dier.
*Original email: * I would very much appreciate some
pointers for how to transport blood samples stored in
ethanol internationally (from UK to New Zealand). I
had been intending to bring a chilly bin full of samples
on dry ice* / ice packs on a ight from the UK to New
Zealand with me, however I have recently become aware
that many (all?) airlines classify ethanol as a dangerous
good** and restrict the total volume that can be checked
in. According to FAA guidelines (which I'm not sure74 EvolDir April 1, 2015
apply globally, but Air New Zealand's guidelines seem
very similar) I think you are not allowed more than 1L
of total ethanol.
>From what I have read, the alternative is to send as a
dangerous good with one of the international carriers
e.g. Fedex, however this is likely to be prohibitively ex-
pensive. An online quote suggests the chilly bin we have
in mind would cost around NZD $2,500 to transport,
and this is before I've even mentioned the 'hazardous'
contents.
Any help would be very much appreciated!
With many thanks, Anna Santure University of Auck-
land, New Zealand
*also a dangerous good... **apparently litres of duty
free gin, vodka, wine and rum are not dangerous goods
though!
*Responses - thank you all again!* # I can only tell
you something you probably won't like so much: my
experience is to best leave it to a carrier, which is indeed
expensive. I use World Courier a lot, much more reliable
than FedEx or DHL etc. they are known to loose a lot of
their packages, I would not risk that. Dry ice/ ice packs
are usually not permitted on ights and I can only say
the very best about World Courier, they are fast and
professional, which you can see in their prices :( contact
their oce and ask about prices, but you can expect
about double than FedEx. I guess it really depends on
how valuable those samples are, but they know how to
handle transport and customs.
# I've own with ethanol samples several times before.
The easiest thing to do is to pour o as much of the
ethanol as possible before transporting them and then
top them up once you arrive at your destination. Of
course, this is a lot easier if the sample is tissue - I'm not
quite sure how it would work with blood. Perhaps you
could spin them down and pour the top ethanol layer
o and then just transport them as blood samples'?
# About your question, depending on how serious the
checks you think will be and how important/unique are
the samples, you could decide to just put them in your
checked luggage (maybe paying also for an extra lug-
gage) and cross your ngers. In case the material you're
transporting needs some sort of permit to be exported
from the UK or imported in NZ, make sure you have one
so that in case of problems you can always show them
the documents. Otherwise, you can always have some
sort of ocial letter. I doubt they'll be willing to stick
their face in blood samples to check if they're in ethanol.
At that point they'll be more concerned if you're bring-ing some sort of bio-hazard rather than the ethanol. So
the idea is: you put them in your luggage and then you
have some ocial document stating that those samples
are safe and you're allowed to transport them. I know
this is not exactly sticking to the rules but I know some
people who have done this in inter-continental ights.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMichigan BioStation
SummerResearch
The University of Michigan Biological Station (UMBS)
is pleased to oer the Project CLEAR Fund Fellowship
for summer 2015. We are North America's largest in-
land eld station and are situated in the heart of the
Great Lakes.
http://lsa.umich.edu/umbs/students/-
studentresearchopportunities/-
studentresearchfellowships ELIGIBILITY: Graduate or
undergraduate students who will conduct independent
research on freshwater ecosystems (e.g. water quality
improvement, ecosystem protection or stewardship,
or freshwater sustainability); involve/engage local
communities in their research/research ndings; and
enroll concurrently in 1 summer session eld class at
UMBS. (http://lsa.umich.edu/umbs/students/courses)
SUPPORT: This fellowship provides room, board, re-
search fees and supplies at UMBS. The Tip of the Mitt
Watershed Council is participating with UMBS to help
fellows nd and engage appropriate communities.
A note about course enrollment: This fellowship does
not cover tuition for the eld class. However, we have
separate nancial aid for students taking classes for
which you should apply.
TO APPLY: Send resume and letter of interest to UMBS
Associate Director Karie Slavik, slavik@umich.edu.
DEADLINE: Friday, April 3, 2015.
farmeral@umich.eduApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 75
PostDocs
AMNH NewYork BioinformaticsComputationalBiology
75
ClemsonU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
DesMoinesU Paleobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
HarvardU BioMath InfectiousDisease HIV . . . . . . . . . 78
IBG2 Germany CropEvolutionDomestication . . . . . . 78
IISER-TVM Kerala India EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . 79
ImperialCollegeLondon SpeciationPopulationGenomics
79
KielU MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Lausanne GenomicsSocialPolymorphism . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Lyon Epigenetics GenomeStability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
MonashU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
MonashU TelomereEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
MountSinai StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
NorthCarolinaStateU MosquitoPopGenetics . . . . . . . 83
OklahomaStateU ComputationalQuantitativeGenomics
84
OmahaZoo MadagascarBiodiversityGenomics . . . . . .85
Oslo FungalMolecularEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
PennsylvaniaStateU CoralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
PurdueU SalmonidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
QUT Brisbane Australia MammalEvolution DNA mor-
phologyFossils . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
Rostock Germany Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
SangerInst ParasiteGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
Senckenberg Frankfurt CommunityEvolution . . . . . . 89
SLU Sweden PlantPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
SwanseaU SalmonEpigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Toronto PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UAberdeen AvianMatingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91
UArizona 2 GenomicsInvasivePlantAdaptation . . . . 92
UBath EvolutionaryGenomics SocialMicrobes . . . . . 93
UCDavis DevelopmentalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 93
UChicago EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UCollege London TetrapodEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94UEastAnglia Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UFlorida AppliedEvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . 96
UHaifa PhD PDF Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
UJyvaskyla HumanSocialBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
ULausanne Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UManchester TraitVariationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UMissouri DinosaurCranialBiomechanics . . . . . . . . . 100
UMontana EvolutionaryGenomics SexualSelection 100
UNamur Belgium Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UNewEngland Australia PlantSpeciationGenomics 102
UNewHampshire BeeSociogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UNotreDame MalariaComputBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UOregon BioinformaticsHostMicrobe . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UOregon MicrobialEcology Bioinformatics . . . . . . . .105
UOregon MicrobialEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UOslo 3yr AvianHybridization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UOtago EvolutionaryGeneticsZosterops . . . . . . . . . . 106
UOtago NZ GenomicsComplexCognition . . . . . . . . . 107
UOulu PopulationStatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UPernambuco Brazil EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UPittsburgh Plant-PollinatorInteractions . . . . . . . . . 109
USDA ARS Gainesville PopulationGenomics . . . . . 109
USheeld PlantPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UToledo FishGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
UUtah Evolutionary GeneticsGenomics Development
111
UUtah HerbivoreMicrobiomeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . 111
UUtah PlantAnimalMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UVermont LoyolaU ChagasGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UVirginia EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
UWashington PlantFrugivoreCoevolution . . . . . . . . .114
UWisconsin Madison PlantQuantGenet . . . . . . . . . . 114
Vienna 6 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
Wageningen MicrobialSyntheticBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
AMNH NewYork Bioinformatic-
sComputationalBiology
American Museum of Natural History Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in Bioinformatics and Computational BiologyThe American Museum of Natural History seeks highly
qualied applicants for its Gerstner Postdoctoral Fellows
program in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology.
Successful applicants must be able to work eectively in
applying innovative techniques to pursue independent
and collaborative bioinformatics and computational re-
search in integrative studies of genomics or spatial bioin-
formatics or biodiversity informatics, alongside faculty
and other researchers interested in phylogenetics, phy-76 EvolDir April 1, 2015
logeography, evolutionary studies, and phenomics (the
use of high-throughput computational methods to ana-
lyze morphological, physiological, and other phenotypic
form and function). Fellows also will participate in
the design, development and implementation of new
algorithms, bioinformatics tools and infrastructure and
computational methods to facilitate genomic assemblies
and analyses, as well as developing methods to catalyze
ongoing synthesis of phylogenetic information and ad-
dress 'big data' issues from a computational perspective.
A portion of each Fellows' eorts also will include: 1)
teaching, training and workshops, 2) research collabora-
tion with and assistance to faculty, postdoctoral fellows,
students, and other Museum colleagues in accessing in-
cluding data storage, retrieval, and assembly; and 3)
maintaining software and related resources.
The initial appointment will be for one year, poten-
tially renewable for one to two additional years based
on performance.
Requirements: Applicants must have a PhD in Biolog-
ical Sciences, Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,
Computer Science, Molecular Biology, Genomics, or
a related discipline, with experience in computational
biology, bioinformatics, creating databases and compu-
tational pipelines, and analysis of large biological data
sets. Prociency in programming and scripting required
(ideally Python, Perl, and R), and familiarity with other
languages, such as mysql, C++/C, or Java, is desirable.
For bioinformatics and computational biology tool de-
velopment, candidates should have documented skills
in various areas of expertise, such as next-generation
sequence processing (quality screening and error correc-
tion), de novo and reference guided assembly for non-
model eukaryotic whole genomes and transcriptomes,
read mapping, gene annotation and discovery, and/or
processing phenomic, transcriptomic, and phylogenomic
datasets. Experience in a bioinformatics setting and in
operating and maintaining high performance linux/unix
servers preferred. Candidates should have extensive re-
search experience with a solid publication record, ideally
with some experience in phylogenetic methods, and ex-
cellent interpersonal, writing and problem-solving skills.
Application: Applicants should submit the fol-
lowing materials electronically, preferably as PDF
les, via a single email message to Gerstnerbioin-
fopostdoc@amnh.org (Subject line: 2015 Gerstner
Bioinformatics-Computation Postdoc: your name): 1) a
cover letter in which you indicate your interest, experi-
ence, and qualications for the position; 2) a short (2-4
page) prospectus of the type of research project(s) and
bioinformatics-computational biology tools you propose
to develop during the postdoctoral appointment, 3) acurriculum vitae, with names of at least 2 references; and
4) PDF les of up to ve recent publications, or other
documentation of relevant accomplishments in bioin-
formatics/computational biology. Applicants also must
arrange for 2 academic reference letters to be sent by the
due date to Gerstnerbioinfopostdoc@amnh.org (Subject
line: 2015 Gerstner Bioinformatics-Computation Post-
doc Reference Letter: applicant name). DUE DATE:
April 27, 2015.
The American Museum of Natural History is an Equal
Opportunity/ Armative Action Employer. The Mu-
seum encourages Women, Minorities, Persons with Dis-
abilities, Vietnam Era and Disabled Veterans to apply.
The Museum does not discriminate due to age, sex,
religion, race, color, national origin, disability, marital
status, veteran status, sexual orientation, or any other
factor prohibited by law.
Anna Manuel <amanuel@amnh.org >
ClemsonU ComputationalGenomics
Computational Genomics Postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate Position Clemson University
The Lawton-Rauh Lab is recruiting a computational
genomics postdoctoral research associate to join the
RosBREED team on the newly-funded RosBREED2
project (www.rosbreed.org; USDA-Specialty Crops Re-
search Initiative, 5 years). The RosBREED team is an
extensive collaboration amongst computational scien-
tists, breeders, geneticists, physiologists, pathologists,
and socio-economists. A major goal of this project is
to translate genome evolution and diversity/divergence
amongst cultivars and wild relatives into modern DNA-
based diagnostic tools to help deliver new cultivars with
combined superior horticultural quality and disease re-
sistance.
This computational genomics scientist will be based at
Clemson University to work with Amy Lawton-Rauh
as postdoctoral advisor. Resources will include the
Institute for Translational Genomics (Stephen Kreso-
vich), the CU-Genomics and Computational Biology
Lab (Chris Saski), and research computing training
opportunities (http://citi.clemson.edu/ciprac/). This
position is targeted to begin late spring/early summer
2015 and is currently funded for two years.
Activities: The major research focus for this postdoc will
be on comparative genomics analysis of domestication-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 77
related genome regions plus locus-specic and genome-
wide haploblock discovery and diagnostic tool implemen-
tation and optimization. This post has several specic,
cutting-edge objectives for basic research-enabled tool
development to successfully achieve goals of this grant
coupled with excellent opportunities for other related
exploratory projects. Scientic publications, extension
articles, participation in conferences and project meet-
ings, and networking across breeding programs and al-
lied science programs both U.S-wide and internationally
are expected.
Job functions: * Work with the CU-GCBL web portal
computational genomics group to collate and curate
relevant genome sequence data from multiple platforms
* Employ and optimize comparative analytical methods
to discover haplotype blocks (haploblocks) in cultivars,
diverse germplasm, and wild relatives * Actively partici-
pate in networking and project team activities (including
extensively with the international RosBREED group)
* Communicate results in multiple formats (journals,
conferences, project reports, plus miscellaneous relevant
media)
Qualications: Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Genet-
ics, Bioinformatics, Genomics, Computational Biology,
Biological Sciences, Crop Sciences, or a closely related
eld. The successful candidate will be a highly moti-
vated team player with excellent communication skills
and computational genomics experience. Preference
will be given to candidates with evidence of successful
management and documentation of large datasets and
a strong publication record. Experiences with complex
genomes, diverse sequencing platforms, workow imple-
mentation and optimization, creative problem-solving,
and a commitment to translation of genome dynam-
ics models to practical applications are highly desired.
Familiarity with the following is advantageous but not
required: statistical genetics, population and quantita-
tive genetics, and domestication processes.
Pay & work schedule: Standard hours: 37.5. Salary will
be commensurate with credentials and experience. This
position is funded for two years.
Applying: If you are interested in this posi-
tion, please send inquiries to Amy Lawton-Rauh
(amylr@clemson.edu). To apply, email the following:
a cover letter, current CV, and the contact information
(phone number and email address) of three referees.
Consideration of applications will begin immediately
and will continue until the position is lled. To ensure
full consideration, please submit materials by April 3,
2015. Applications will be reviewed as received and
qualied applicants will be invited to interview on or
after April 3, 2015 or until the position is lled.JOB LOCATION: Biosystems Research Complex (BRC)
- Clemson Main Campus
The Jeanne Clery Disclosure Act requires institutions
of higher education to disclose campus security infor-
mation including crime statistics for the campus and
surrounding areas. As a current or prospective Clemson
University employee, you have a right to obtain a copy
of this information for this institution. For more infor-
mation regarding our Employment, Campus Safety and
Benets, please visit the Human Resources-Prospective
Employees web page below: http://www.clemson.edu/-
cao/humanresources/prospective/ Clemson University
is an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity employer
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DesMoinesU Paleobiology
Paleobiology postdoc position to start early Summer
2015. Des Moines University, Des Moines, IA
Description: Applications are now being accepted for
a postdoctoral scholar for an NSF-funded project on
Natural Trap Cave to start in early Summer 2015. This
2-year postdoctoral position will be based in Des Moines,
IA at Des Moines University with PI Julie Meachen. The
postdoc will be working with the eld site of Natural
Trap Cave, Wyoming. Duties will include being the
eld manager for 3 weeks each year at the eld site,
this includes organizing and appointing duties in the
camp, and overseeing the crew during paleontological
eld work. The postdoc will also travel to Lawrence
Livermore Laboratories in the Bay Area of California to
analyze AMS radiocarbon samples (this will be about 1
month per year on-site in Livermore), a living stipend
will be oered to defray these costs. When not at the
Wyoming camp or in California, the postdoc will be
based at Des Moines University and will work with the
PI on morphology-based projects related to Natural
Trap Cave. There will also be time for the postdoc to
work on independent research projects and with stu-
dents. If desired, the candidate may also obtain some
human gross anatomy laboratory experience.
Qualications include a Ph.D. in a paleo-related eld
(Biology, Geology, or Anthropology), with a degree in78 EvolDir April 1, 2015
hand no later than July 1, 2015. Field experience is
required, and the candidate should have the ability to
do rigorous eldwork (rappelling and ascending 85 feet).
Experience with AMS radiocarbon dating is a plus, but
not a requirement. Experience using R programming
language is also viewed positively. The candidate must
be willing to travel for 2 months a year and be able to
work independently.
Des Moines University (www.dmu.edu) is a private, non-
prot, osteopathic medical college. Des Moines Univer-
sity is the second oldest osteopathic medical school and
the fteenth largest medical school in the United States.
It oers Doctorate degrees in Osteopathy, Physical Ther-
apy, and Podiatry and Master?s degrees in Biomedical
Sciences, Health Care Administration, Physician?s As-
sistant Studies, and Anatomy. It is located in the heart
of Des Moines, IA, an aordable city, which oers the
amenities of a bigger city with the convenience of a
small town. It was voted Forbes Magazine ?Best City
for Young Professionals? in 2014. More about Des
Moines can be found here: http://www.dmgov.org/-
Pages/default.aspx . To Apply: Please send an email in-
cluding a CV and research statement to Julie Meachen at
julie.meachen@dmu.edu. Please direct questions about
the position to the same email. Initial screening of ap-
plicants will begin immediately and will continue until
the position is lled.
Julie Meachen, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Anatomy De-
partment Des Moines University 3200 Grand Ave. Des
Moines, IA 50312 Oce: 515-271-1568 Fax: 515-271-
4252
\Meachen, Julie" <Julie.Meachen@dmu.edu >
HarvardU BioMath
InfectiousDisease HIV
Postdoctoral Fellow position, Mathematical Modeling
of Infectious Disease, Harvard University, Boston, MA,
USA
The Program for Evolutionary Dynamics at Harvard
University welcomes applications for a postdoctoral fel-
low to work in the eld of infectious disease modeling
with Dr. Alison Hill and Professor Martin Nowak. We
are seeking a motivated and creative PhD-level scien-
tist with experience applying mathematics to biological
systems. The successful candidate would be invited to
work on established projects, as well as be encouraged
to pursue independent research of mutual interest.A major focus of the group is on an NIH-funded eort to
develop mathematical models to predict the outcomes of
new, potentially-curative treatment strategies for HIV
infection. We also use viral dynamic models to under-
stand outcomes of antiretroviral therapy, the risks of
drug resistance, the inuence of patient adherence, and
the potential impact of new drug delivery mechanisms.
We regularly work with data from experimental collabo-
rators testing new therapies in vitro, in animal models,
and in patients. More generally, we are interested in fac-
tors inuencing the evolution of infectious diseases and
the emergence of drug resistance, both at the individual
and population levels. Our work is conducted in close
collaboration with experimental and clinical researchers.
More information about the position can be found
at : https://academicpositions.harvard.edu/postings/-
6053 Inquiries can be directed to Alison Hill (al-
hill@fas.harvard.edu)
alhill@fas.harvard.edu
IBG2 Germany
CropEvolutionDomestication
/A one-year Research Fellowship on 'Crop Evolution and
Domestication' for a Postdoctoral Researcher and spon-
sored by the Universit a Politecnica delle Marche, will be
published soon (http://www.univpm.it). This will be
spent at the Forschungszentrum Julich Gmbh, Institute
of Bio and Geo Sciences, IBG2 Plant Sciences (http://-
www.fz-juelich.de/), in Germany. For more information
please contact the Project Leader: Prof. Roberto Papa
(r.papa@univpm.it)./
Prof. Roberto Papa Universit a Politecnica delle
Marche D3A-Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Al-
imentari e Ambientali, Via Brecce Bianche, 60131
ANCONA ITALY phone +39-0712204984/280
mobile +39-3393921616 email: r.papa@univpm.it
http://publicationslist.org/r.papa www.univpm.it/-
roberto.papa http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9598-3131
Roberto Papa <rpapa@univpm.it >April 1, 2015 EvolDir 79
IISER-TVM Kerala India
EvolutionaryEcol
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION AT IISER-
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, KERALA, INDIA.
A postdoctoral position in Evolutionary Ecology is avail-
able at IISER Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India, in
the Vanasiri Evolutionary Ecology Group of Ullasa Ko-
dandaramaiah (www.vanasiri.in)
DEADLINE: Screening of applications will start April
30th, but will continue until a suitable candidate is
found.
SALARY: Rs. 43,200 - 48,000 per month (including
Housing Rent Allowance; commensurate with experi-
ence)
RESEARCH SUBJECT(S): Our research group works
on various questions within evolutionary ecology in-
cluding prey-predator interactions, insect-hostplant co-
evolution, parasite-host co-evolution, biogeography, phy-
logeography, population genetics, etc. More information
at www.vanasiri.in/research. Currently used model sys-
tems include dierent insects (primarily butteries),
plants and reptiles.
Collaborations with candidates who can design projects
that complement ongoing work in the group are welcome.
I also welcome collaborations with candidates through
projects on new kinds of questions, and/or new model
organisms, which will enrich research in our group. The
permanent campus of IISER Thiruvananthapuram is an
outstanding location (see www.vanasiri.in/facilities) for
ecological and evolutionary studies.
You are encouraged to contact me informally (ul-
lasa@iisertvm.ac.in) to discuss your ideas and their fea-
sibility before sending in your formal application.
SELECTION: Selection will be based on the scientic
credentials of the candidate (needless to mention, a PhD
is a must), quality of the research proposal and feasibil-
ity of carrying out the research proposal. The formal
advertisement, including details about how to apply is
here http://iisertvm.ac.in/openings/read opening/115
DURATION: The initial contract will be for 1 year,
but can be extended to 2 years based on performance.
The selected candidate is expected to join as soon as
possible.
LIFE IN KERALA AND THIRUVANANTHAPURAM(TRIVANDRUM): The coastal city of Thiruvanantha-
puram is the capital of Kerala, and has a rich cultural
heritage. It is within a stone's throw away from world-
famous beaches such as Kovalam and Varkala, and lovely
backwater tourism areas such as Poovar. Several hill
stations (e.g Ponmudi) and wildlife sanctuaries are close
by. Being a major medical tourism destination, the city
has excellent medical care facilities.
It is a relatively small city, and the cost of living tends
to be considerably lower than in bigger Indian cities. A
2-bedroom apartment can be had for Rs 8,000 - 10,000
per month. There are plenty of options for dining out -
a meal at a decent local restaurant can start from Rs 50,
but a good meal with a drink even in a ve-star hotel
usually costs less than Rs 1000. Costs for groceries and
other daily needs can be looked up here (www.kada.in).
Taxis can be hired from Rs 10 per km (with a mini-
mum fare of Rs 50), while the cost of driving your own
small car (not for the faint-hearted!) is about Rs 5 per
kilometer (petrol: Rs 67/litre, diesel: Rs 55/litre).
Ullasa Kodandaramaiah ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in
ImperialCollegeLondon
SpeciationPopulationGenomics
{Apple-Mail= 7AE1A3EE-185A-4316-A805-
BAEC39417C6B Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-
printable Content-Type: text/plain; charset=windows-
1252
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics
Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London,
United Kingdom.
Salary: $33,410 - $42,380 per annum (maximum start-
ing salary $35,190 per annum)
Closing date: 24 April 2015 (midnight BST)
This is an exciting opportunity for a Research Associate
with interests in speciation and evolution. The success-
ful candidate will carry out cutting edge research on the
genetic mechanisms of ecological speciation in a well-
known group of anciently asexual animals, the bdelloid
rotifers. You will sequence whole genomes for related
bdelloid species living in dierent habitats and use pop-
ulation genomic analyses to test alternative mechanisms
behind their divergence. The work will involve bioinfor-
matics, statistical methods in population genomics and80 EvolDir April 1, 2015
computer models. You will work closely with a Research
Technician who will conduct molecular labwork.
The position is funded for up to 3 years by the Natural
Environment Research Council and will be based at the
Silwood Park Campus. The successful candidates will
work closely with Professor Tim Barraclough and his
research group.
You must have a PhD or equivalent qualication in evo-
lution, ecology, genetics or a closely related discipline,
and one or more rst author (or joint rst author) pub-
lications. The successful candidate will have expertise
in population genomics and/or statistics and modelling
with a strong interest in evolutionary biology. Experi-
ence of bioinformatics including scripting and/or pro-
gramming is essential. While not essential, experience of
handling and archiving large datasets and experience of
genome assembly and/or population genomics analysis,
would be an advantage.
You must have experience of working in a team, be able
to develop and apply new concepts and have a creative
approach to problem-solving. You must also have ex-
cellent verbal and written communication skills and be
able to write clearly and succinctly for publication.
Further details of the research group can be ob-
tained from the research group website: http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/t.barraclough. For more
information or with queries, contact Tim Barraclough
at t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk.
Our preferred method of application is online via our
website http://www.imperial.ac.uk/employment (please
select \Job Search" then enter the job title or vacancy
reference number including spaces - NS 2015 053 JT into
\Keywords"). Please complete and upload an application
form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply online, please
contact Mrs Christine Short on 020 7594 2276 or email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk to request an application form.
Closing date: 24 April 2015 (midnight BST)
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We are
also an Athena SWAN Silver Award winner, a Stonewall
Diversity Champion, a Two Ticks Employer and are
working in partnership with GIRES to promote respect
for trans people.
||||||||||||||||||{
Prof. Timothy G. Barraclough, Professor of Evolution-
ary Biology
||||||||||||||||||{
Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London,
Silwood Park Campus, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 7PY, UK
E-mail: t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk Telephone: +44(0)207 594 2247 Fax: +44 (0)207 594 2339 Web-page:
www.imperial.ac.uk/people/t.barraclough {Apple-
Mail= 7AE1A3EE-185A-4316-A805-BAEC39417C6B
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
KielU
MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics
The Genomic Microbiology Group at the Institute of
Microbiology in Christian-Albrechts University of Kiel,
Germany, invites applications for:
Postdoc Position in Microbial Evolutionary Genomics
The Genomic Microbiology Group research interests
are focused on microbial genome evolution with an em-
phasis on the study of DNA acquisition dynamics in
natural environments. In our research we use both
computational and experimental approaches (see http:/-
/www.mikrobio.uni-kiel.de/de/ag-dagan). The working
language of the group is English.
The position oers the opportunity to develop an in-
dependent research prole within the group research
focus. In addition, the successful applicant is expected
to consult MSc and PhD biology students in the analysis
of genomic data and participate in teaching of genomics
and programming (PERL/Python).
Candidate qualications: (1) Doctoral or PhD degree
in Molecular Evolution, Bioinformatics or related elds;
Post-Doctoral work is an advantage. (2) Knowledge
and experience in the analysis of genomic data. Any
of following expertise is an advantage: phylogenomics,
genomics, transcriptomics, programming, biostatistics.
(3) Good oral and written communication skills (English
is required, German a plus). (4) Skills and motivation
to communicate and interact with other scientists.
Applicants should upload curriculum vitae with a list
of publications, a motivation statement and contact ad-
dresses of two referees to https://bewperle.uni-kiel.de/-
ifam/ . For enquiries regarding the position please con-
tact Prof. Tal Dagan, email: tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de
The position is initially oered for two years at the Ger-
man TV-L E13 pay scale and may be extended up to
four years.
Application deadline: 15.04.2015 or until the position is
lled. Interviews will take place during April-May 2015.
The planned starting date for the position is July 2015.
Prof. Dr. Tal DaganApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 81
Genomic Microbiology Group Institute of Microbiology
Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel ZMB, Am Botanis-
chen Garten 11 24118 Kiel, Germany
Tel: +49 431 880 5712 Fax: +49 431 880 5747 e-mail:
tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de web: http://www.mikrobio.uni-
kiel.de/de/ag-dagan tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de
Lausanne
GenomicsSocialPolymorphism
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION, ECOLOGICAL GE-
NOMICS OF SOCIAL POLYMORPHISM, LAU-
SANNE
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral position in
the research group of Michel Chapuisat (Department of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne). Our
group studies social evolution, with a focus on the struc-
ture and evolution of ant societies. Please look at http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/page7000.html for information and
references.
We have identied a social chromosome associated with
variation in colony queen number in the Alpine silver
ant Formica selysi (Purcell et al. Cur. Biol. 2014).
We plan to study the origin and maintenance of this
polymorphism by combining genomic, behavioural and
ecological approaches. The focus will depend on the
interest and background of the postdoc, and there will
be scope to accommodate personal ideas or projects.
The ideal candidate should have a solid background in
evolutionary biology and genomics. Experience in one
or more of the following areas would be an asset: pop-
ulation genomics, comparative genomics, genotyping-
by-sequencing, transcriptomics, evolutionary ecology,
experimental behavioural ecology.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is large and
thriving, and provides excellent facilities for research
and training (see http://www.unil.ch/dee/).
Informal enquiries and applications should be sent to
Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch. Applications should include
a cover letter with a statement of research interests
and qualications for the position, complete CV with
publication list, and contact details of three referees,
embedded in a single pdf le.
Michel Chapuisat
Department of Ecology and Evolution Biophore,
Quartier Sorge University of Lausanne CH-1015 Lau-sanne Switzerland
Oce: 3123, Biophore Phone: +4121 692 41 78 Web-
site: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7642.html Michel
Chapuisat <Michel.Chapuisat@unil.ch >
Lyon Epigenetics GenomeStability
*Post Doctoral position in epigenetics and genome sta-
bility, Lyon*
We are welcoming applications from enthusiastic and
independent post-doctoral candidates to participate in
our FRM grant-funded project related to epigenetics
and genome stability. The fellowship is for 2 years and
should start before June 2015. Applications are accepted
until the end of March.
*Background*
Genomic stability can be disturbed by the activity of
repeated sequences such as transposable elements (TEs).
Epigenetic mechanisms allow the silencing of these se-
quences. As a consequence, the presence of TEs in a
genome may aect the chromatin structure of the re-
gions in which they are inserted. Environmental factors
have also been described as aecting genome stability,
namely by aecting the rate of transposition,, and could
be associated with environment related diseases such as
cancer. **
*Project*
The purpose of the project is to establish the link be-
tween TEs, environment and epigenetics. Drosophila
is one of the best-tted model for this project since we
have an easy access to Drosophila natural variability,
the species genome is small and harbors low amounts of
TEs, and it is easily manipulated in the lab. The project
consists in the analysis of Drosophila responses to stress
by analyzing chromatin structure, piRNA abundances
and mRNA levels, with an emphasis on TEs.
*Candidates*
The applicants are expected to have a strong background
in epigenetics with a conrmed interest in genomics and
evolutionary biology. Skills in data analysis and/or bioin-
formatics are necessary, but the candidate will benet
from the LBBE bioinformatics and statistical environ-
ment. The ideal candidate should be highly motivated,
curious and enthusiastic to work in a collaborative team.
Proven ability to identify research objectives and meet
agreed deadlines, self-motivation and exibility are es-82 EvolDir April 1, 2015
sential. Excellent written and oral skills in English are
required.
*Environment*
The host laboratory (LBBE, http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-
) is a stimulating, cosmopolitan and pleasant place to
work, where one can meet biologists, computer scientists,
mathematicians and statisticians working on problems
that range from ecology to medicine, through genomics
and evolution. Lyon is the second largest city in France,
is famous for its food, is a UNESCO World Heritage site
and enjoys a very convenient central location in Europe.
Please send one PDF le to
Cristina Vieira cristina.vieira@univ-lyon1.fr
<mailto:cristina.vieira@univ-lyon1.fr >
including:
- a cover letter
- a concise summary of previous research activities (2
pages max) - a curriculum vitae including publication
list - contact details for 2-3 referees
{ Cristina Vieira Institut Universitaire de France Labo-
ratoire de Biom etrie et Biologie Evolutive UMR CNRS
5558 Universit e Lyon 1 43 bd du 11 novembre 1918 69622
Villeurbanne cedex Tel. 04 72 43 29 15 http://lbbe.univ-
lyon1.fr/-Equipe-Elements-transposables-.html Cristina
Vieira <cristina.vieira@univ-lyon1.fr >
MonashU EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral opportunities are available to work with
Tim Connallon, in Monash Universitys School of Bio-
logical Sciences (Melbourne, Australia). I have broad
research interests in evolutionary genetics, including the
following areas:
- The role of genetic constraints in adaptation - The evo-
lution of sexual dimorphism - Sex chromosome evolution
- Population genetic signals of adaptation - Adaptation
with gene ow - Theoretical population genetics
Current research in my group combines theory devel-
opment, analyses of publicly available datasets, and
quantitative genetics experiments using Drosophila.
I am interested in theoretical and empirical projects that
t within the general areas mentioned above. There is
considerable exibility regarding the specic projects
that may be undertaken, and these will ideally be de-
signed in collaboration with the successfully candidate.The successful candidate should have a PhD in biology or
a related discipline, a solid track record of independent
scholarship, including high-quality publications, and
good written and verbal communication skills. Strong
quantitative or computational abilities are a plus. Two
years of support is guaranteed, provided satisfactory
progress is met, and there are good opportunities for ex-
tended support beyond the rst two years. The position
is at the postdoctoral academic level A, with starting
salary of ~$75K per year AUD.
The School of Biological Sciences at Monash houses
a diverse and interactive group of academics, and the
school provides a stimulating and supportive environ-
ment for carrying out research in ecology, evolution
and genetics. Opportunities are excellent for scien-
tic collaboration, for mentorship, and for developing
an independent research program. For more informa-
tion about the school, see: http://www.monash.edu/-
science/schools/biological-sciences Interested candi-
dates should please send a letter of research interests and
a CV to tim.connallon@monash.edu. Informal queries
are encouraged at this time. Instructions for formal
application through the Monash University system will
follow in a subsequent post.
tim.connallon@monash.edu
MonashU TelomereEvolution
Post-doctoral RESEARCH FELLOW: Quantitative
molecular ecologist Monash University (Melbourne, Aus-
tralia) to study ecology of telomere dynamics in fairy-
wrens Application deadline: 28 March 2015 Start date:
between April and Sep 2015
Anne Peters at Monash University, Melbourne, Aus-
tralia, in collaboration with Simon Verhulst, Groningen
University, The Netherlands, is seeking an experienced
Quantitative Molecular Ecologist to explore the ecology
of molecular senescence (telomere attrition). Telomeres
shorten as organisms age and short telomeres are associ-
ated with greater predisposition to diseases, accelerated
organismal senescence and shorter lifespan. Telomere
shortening rate is known to vary with external inuences
and individual quality. This project will use longitudinal
sampling of telomere length in individual fairy-wrens, of
known age and pedigree. The telomere information will
be combined with state of the art statistical methods to
study telomere dynamics in relation to life-history and
ecology, to disentangle eects of senescence and selectiveApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 83
disappearance, and to assess environmental and genetic
eects on telomere attrition rate.
As the successful candidate, you will join Anne Peters
group studying behavioural and evolutionary ecology of
fairy-wrens, based at Monash University (Melbourne,
Australia). You will be expected to optimise and imple-
ment existing qPCR protocols for use in fairy-wrens and
apply these to blood/DNA samples ( 2000 longitudinal
samples). You will further be expected to maintain
consistently high research output in the form of quality
publications, supervise and train students, develop and
submit grant proposals to external funding agencies,
contribute more generally to research activities of the
group, and participate in appropriate career develop-
ment activities. The position (Level A, starting salary
~$75 p.a. with annual increments) is for three years
subject to satisfactory annual progress.
Requirements: - A PhD in molecular ecology, with ex-
tensive experience in qPCR, preferably of telomeres - A
publication track record in high-quality journals that
clearly reects the ability to conduct and publish re-
search in the eld of molecular ecology - Demonstrated
evidence of a strong interest in applying state-of-the-
art molecular methods to current evolutionary and eco-
logical questions with meticulous attention to detail
and high quality lab work - Strong quantitative skills in
the R-environment are highly advantageous, especially
animal modelling framework - Ability to work indepen-
dently in a collaborative research team - Experience in
or enthusiasm for supervision and training of students
- Experience in developing and submitting grant pro-
posals - Ability to communicate eectively with other
scientists at the interface of lab and eld ecology - Strong
command of English
For further details about the host and institution see:
https://sites.google.com/site/petersresearchgroup/
http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/ and http://www.rug.nl/sta/s.verhulst/ Send
a letter that addresses these requirements and includes
a brief statement about why you are interested in this
post-doc plus a full academic CV that includes including
the names and contact details (email, phone) of 2-3
references, to Anne Peters (anne.peters@monash.edu)
by the closing date of 28 March 2015.
Anne Peters <anne.peters@monash.edu >MountSinai StatisticalGenomics
Stahl LabjPost-doctoral scientist in statistical/human
genomics
Two positions are available, one with a primary focus on
data analysis, and one with a primary focus on genetic
modeling and inference methods. Both using GWAS
and/or sequence data; range of applications in discovery,
integration, prediction; any disease area. Focus on med-
ical genetics, evolutionary impacts and implications are
of course relevant. Secondary evolutionary/population
genetic focused projects are welcome/available.
Please see the Stahl Lab Positions web page http://-
research.mssm.edu/stahl/positions.html for more infor-
mation and how to apply.
The Stahl Lab is part of the Center for Statistical Genet-
ics (Dir. Shaun Purcell), in the Division of Psychiatric
Genomics (Chief Pamela Sklar).
Thank you
Eli A. Stahl, PhD Assistant Professor Center for Statisti-
cal Genetics, Division of Psychiatric Genomics Institute
for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Department of Ge-
netics and Genomic Sciences Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai New York, NY
eli.stahl@mssm.edu
NorthCarolinaStateU
MosquitoPopGenetics
Postdoc: Modeling Population Genetics for Suppression
of Mosquito-Vectored Diseases
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Dengue is a mosquito-
vectored disease that aects over 100 million people
each year. With funding from the NIH, FNIH, and
W. M. Keck Foundation, we have developed a set of
mathematical models ranging from simple to complex,
aimed at assisting the design and deployment of novel
approaches for suppressing transmission of dengue by
its major mosquito vector, Aedes aegypti. We are es-
pecially interested in evaluating the potential utility
and risks associated with using genetically engineered,84 EvolDir April 1, 2015
selsh genetic elements to drive genes into mosquito
populations that render them incapable of transmitting
dengue fever or decrease mosquito density. Our new
work also extends to models relevant to suppressing
malaria.
New developments in molecular genetics promise to
increase the eciency of building gene drive systems
with novel properties. The postdoc in this position will
build a set of simple to complex models to examine
the expected dynamics of these gene drive systems in
mosquitoes and other taxa.
The most detailed model that we have developed simu-
lates the population dynamics and population genetics
of Ae. aegypti in a city on the Amazon river, Iquitos,
for which there are rich data sets on both mosquito
dynamics and dengue epidemiology. An accompanying
epidemiological model is currently under development.
The goals of two other postdocs in our group are to ex-
pand the mosquito model and the human epidemiology
model to encompass the entire city of about 400,000
people. The postdoc in this new position will also col-
laborate with the other postdocs to use these detailed
models to test gene drive systems.
In addition to working on model development and anal-
ysis, the person in this position will collaborate in an
interdisciplinary research group composed of mosquito
ecologists, disease epidemiologists, molecular biologists,
biomathematicians, ethicists, and scientists from disease-
endemic countries. The person in this position will have
the opportunity to visit Iquitos to better understand one
of the systems being modeled. Desirable skills include
the ability to program in C++ or knowledge of a related
programming language, and training in evaluation of
mechanistic models.
To apply: email a cover letter and CV to
Fred Gould@ncsu.edu
For more details on the project see the following publi-
cations:
Esvelt, K. M., A. L. Smidler, F. Catteruccia, G.
M. Church. 2014. Concerning RNA-guided gene
drives for the alteration of wild populations. eLife.
10.7554/eLife.03401.
Oye, K. A. et al. 2014. Regulating gene drives. Science.
345:626-628 Published online 17 July 2014
Huang, Y., Lloyd, A.L., Legros, M., Gould, F. 2010.
Gene-drive into insect populations with age and spatial
structure: a theoretical assessment. Evol. Appl. ISSN
1752-4571.
Gould, F., Huang, Y., Legros, M., Lloyd, A. L. 2008.
A killer-rescue system for self-limiting gene drive ofanti-pathogen constructs. Proc. Royal. Soc. Lond. B.
275:2823-2829.
Magori, K., M. Legros, M. Puente, D. A. Focks, T. W.
Scott, A. Lloyd, F, Gould. 2009. Skeeter Buster: a
stochastic, spatially-explicit modeling tool for studying
Aedes aegypti population replacement and population
suppression strategies. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 3(9): e508.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0000508
Okamoto KW, Robert MA, Gould F, Lloyd AL (2014)
Feasible Introgression of an Anti-pathogen Trans-
gene into an Urban Mosquito Population without Us-
ing Gene-Drive. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 8(7): e2827.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0002827
OklahomaStateU Computation-
alQuantitativeGenomics
Postdoc Position in Computational and Quantitative
Genomics at the Oklahoma State University
The Crop Genomics Group at the Oklahoma State Uni-
versity is seeking enthusiastic applicants to lead a sys-
tems biology eort related to climate challenge and
food security. The research interests of the group fo-
cus on integrating genomics, transcriptional variation
and semantic comparison to characterize genetic interac-
tion, network responsible for the important agronomical
trait variation. Crop Genomics Group at OSU works
very closely with Genomics Core Facility, transcriptome
and metabolomics research groups as well as the wheat
improvement team in the Oklahoma Agricultural Ex-
perimental Station.
The successful candidate will have:
* A PhD in Quantitative and Statistical Genetics, Com-
putational Biology, Information Science, or related eld
* An innovative, creative individual with strong inter-
est in data modeling, systems biology and genomics
technologies * Experience with handling 'omic' data, hi-
erarchical Bayesian statistics and/or informatics pipeline
development, programming and bioinformatics skills are
required * Good communication and interpersonal skills,
and enjoy collaborative research environment
The initial appointment will be 12 months, with the
possibility of extension depending on performance and
funds availability
Candidates should email the following information to
Dr. Charles Chen (charles.chen@okstate.edu)April 1, 2015 EvolDir 85
* A cover letter addressing research interest, experience
and skills that fulll the requirements * A full C.V. *
Most recent or most signicant publication * Contact
information for 3 potential referees
Charles Chen Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
chemistry and Molecular Biology Oklahoma State Uni-
versity 246 Noble Research Center Stillwater, OK 74074
charles.chen@okstate.edu
OmahaZoo
MadagascarBiodiversityGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow - Madagascar Biodiversity Ge-
nomics
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Fellow -
Madagascar Biodiversity Genomics within the Conser-
vation Genetics Department at Omaha's Henry Doorly
Zoo & Aquarium (http://www.omahazoo.com/careers/).
Based in Omaha, Nebraska, the post doctoral researcher
must have an interest and expertise in the generation and
analysis of next-generation sequencing data of lemurs,
tortoises, and other taxa from Madagascar.
Duties: The successful applicant will construct genomic
library for high throughput sequencing as well as as-
semble and analyze sequence data and manage next-
generation sequence workows. This individual will
be responsible for development, implementation, and
support of software applications related to variant de-
tection and interpretation from high-throughput experi-
ments involving multiple species of lemurs, tortoises, and
taxa from Madagascar. Interested candidates should
be highly motivated, organized, independent, and have
extensive experience with molecular genomics and bioin-
formatics. Travel to Madagascar to support the eld
programs of OHDZA-CG is required for a minimum of
ve week intervals twice a year.
Basic Qualications:
Applicants should hold a PhD in bioinformatics, com-
puter science, molecular genomics or related eld
and have more than one year of experience in high-
throughput genome sequence analysis. Applicants
should be experienced at software related to next genera-
tion sequencing data and be able to manipulate genomic
data for phylogenetics and phylogeography. Our groups
focus is large-scale sequencing for phylogenetics, phylo-
geography and evolutionary studies of lemurs, tortoises
and other taxa from Madagascar. Thus, previous expe-rience in genome assemblies, annotation and analysis of
next generation sequencing (NGS) are preferable. The
ideal candidate will be independent, highly motivated,
productive, and able to work eectively in a team with
members from a variety of diverse backgrounds with
outstanding written and verbal communication skills.
The successful applicant must be interested in inter-
disciplinary science and eld research and have a solid
publication record that illustrates ability to conduct
novel, independent research.
Preferred Qualications
Candidates should have 3+ years of experience in molec-
ular biology, genetics, or bioinformatics. The position
requires prociency in programming (Perl, C++) and
Linux operating systems. Applicants are also expected
to be familiar with bioinformatics tools and genomics
databases and have extensive and creditable laboratory
experience with constructing genomic libraries.
Must be legally entitled to work in the USA. Visa spon-
sorship is not available.
Appointment: The selected candidate will be based
primarily at OHDZA-CG, but the individual will be re-
quired to travel and conduct eld work with the projects
under the management of the Madagascar Biodiversity
Partnership, ONG (www.madagascarpartnership.org).
The initial appointment is for duration of two-years, but
may be renewable for an additional two years based on
performance.
Application: Applicants should send curriculum vitae,
a statement of research interests and career goals, and
the names and addresses of three academic references
to:
Dr. Edward E. Louis Director of Conservation Genetics
Center for Conservation and Research Omahas Henry
Doorly Zoo and Aquarium 3701 South 10th Street, Om-
aha, NE 68107 Email: genetics@omahazoo.com
Candidates must also submit a copy of your application
materials through the Omahas Henry Doorly Zoo and
Aquarium career site at: http://www.omahazoo.com/-
careers/ Review of applications will begin immediately
and will continue until the position is lled.
Genetics Department <genetics@omahazoo.com >86 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Oslo FungalMolecularEvol
Three year position as Postdoctoral Research Fellow in
fungal molecular ecology available at the University of
Oslo, Norway:
Soil fungi play important functional roles in forest ecosys-
tems; while saprotrophic taxa are essential for organic
matter decomposition; mycorrhizal root-associated fungi
mediate the link between living plants and the below-
ground community. Recent studies indicate that plant-
fungi interactions through mycorrhiza aect the e-
ciency of decomposition by fungi, and works as a main
driver for soil carbon sequestration in forest ecosystems.
The goal of this project (MycoSoil), which is funded
by the Norwegian Research Council, is to make funda-
mental progress in the understanding of the community
ecology and functions of fungi in boreal forest soils,
how they are organized spatiotemporally and how they
inuence on carbon sequestration processes. We will
take advantage of linking the project to two long-term
surveys of boreal forests. State-of-the-art DNA metabar-
coding and metatranscriptomics approaches will be used
to analyze spatiotemporal variation in the soil fungal
communit ies.
For more information see http://uio.easycruit.com/-
vacancy/1352849/96323?iso=no or contact H avard
Kauserud at haavarka@ibv.uio.no
havard.kauserud@ibv.uio.no
PennsylvaniaStateU CoralEvolution
The Baums lab in the Department of Biology at Penn
State (http://bio.psu.edu/directory/ibb3) is looking for
an experienced researcher to conduct NSF-funded ex-
periments on acclimatization of shallow-water corals to
increased temperature as a result of the 2014 bleaching
event in the Florida Keys. Responsibilities include or-
ganizing and conducting a microcosm experiment over
three months in the Florida Keys (July - Sep 2015)
with little supervision, requiring the researcher to live
in the Florida Keys during this time. Experience with
aquarium experiments on corals and AAUS SCUBAcertication is required. The successful candidate will
be procient in using molecular tools such as gene ex-
pression analysis, RADtag sequencing and bacterial 16s
tag sequencing as well as analysis of next generation
sequencing data. An advanced degree in marine biology
or molecular ecology or related elds is needed. This
position will be lled at the research assistant or re-
search associate level, depending upon education and
experience. Candidate must be able to begin work on
1 June 2015. Position initially funded for 6 months
with possibility of continuation. Applications must be
submitted electronically at https://psu.jobs/job/56345
and include a cover letter detailing research interests
and experience, a current CV and names and contact
information for three references. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until position is
lled.
CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more
about safety at Penn State, and to review the Annual
Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please
go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/ , which will also
provide you with detail on how to request a hard copy
of the Annual Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment
opportunities to minorities, women, veterans, disabled
individuals, and other protected groups.
Job URL: https://psu.jobs/job/56345 ibb3@psu.edu
PurdueU SalmonidEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the labora-
tory of Mark Christie at Purdue University (https:/-
/markrchristie.wordpress.com/) to examine the rapid
evolution of steelhead trout (*Oncorhynchus mykiss*) to
the Great Lakes. Steelhead were introduced to the Great
Lakes around 1890 and have self-sustaining populations
where the sh continue to swim up rivers to spawn, but
now forage and grow in the Great Lakes rather than
the ocean environment. Whole genome resequencing
will play a central role in this project, thus the ideal
candidate will have a strong background in relevant
laboratory work and bioinformatics. Prociency with
Unix/Linux (bash shell) command line and one or more
scripting languages (Perl/Python etc.) will be highly
regarded. Familiarity with R and analytical methods in
population genetics will also be viewed favorably. TheApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 87
candidate is expected to be highly motivated and able
to work both collaboratively and independently. The
position is to be lled as soon as possible with August
being the latest possible start date.
Applicants must have a PhD. Exceptional candidates
that will complete their PhD within the next few months
will also be considered. Applicants should submit 1. a
cover letter that describes your research interests and
goals, 2. a full CV (including publications), and 3. the
names and contact information for three individuals
that are willing to serve as references. Please sub-
mit all application materials as a single PDF le to
markchristie@purdue.edu. Funding is available for two
years contingent upon a successful one-year review. Re-
view of applications will begin April 1st and continue
until the position is lled.
Purdue has substantial bioinformatics resources and
state-of-the-art computational facilities ideal for working
with high-throughput sequencing data. West Lafayette
is a typical college town located about 1 hour away from
Indianapolis and two hours from Chicago. Farmers
markets, local parks, and performing arts (https://-
www.purdue.edu/convocations/) all make for enjoyable
living conditions. Purdue University is an EEO/AA
employer.
markchristie@purdue.edu
QUT Brisbane Australia
MammalEvolution DNA
morphologyFossils
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW: Mammal
Evolution, DNA, morphology, and fossils
The vertebrate evolution group at Queensland Uni-
versity of Technology (Brisbane, Australia) is seeking
a Postdoctoral Fellow to conduct research into mam-
malian evolution at the interface of evolutionary in-
ference, genomics and palaeontology. The position is
funded through an Australian Research Council Discov-
ery Grant to Matt Phillips and Peter Prentis.
* Full-time, 2 years with extension possible. * Starting
May-July 2015 and open to Australian and International
applicants. * Annual salary AUD $60,670 to $82,324
plus 17% superannuation. * Applications close 29 March
The vertebrte evolution group at QUT is within the
School of Earth, Environmental and Biological Sciences(in the Science and Engineering Faculty).
The Fellow will lead the development of novel methods
for integrating molecular and fossil data to answer major
questions in mammalian evolution. Such as the timing
of major diversications and the roles of competition
and environmental change in mammalian diversication
and extinction. In turn, the Fellow will co-supervise
PhD projects that seek to uncover mechanisms that
underpin biodiversity variation across marsupial and
placental mammal faunas. The position will also sup-
port the group's broader research interests in vertebrate
evolution and oers opportunities to collaborate inter-
nationally. A full duty statement is provided at: http:/-
/www.mphillipsbiol.com/contacts{ vacancies.html
The position is at QUT's Gardens Point Campus, which
is located in the centre of Brisbane, nestled between the
Brisbane River and the Botanic Gardens.
The successful applicant will have excellent bioinfor-
matic or phylogenetic skills. Molecular lab skills will
be highly regarded, although are less important if the
application is otherwise strong.
Essential selection criteria:
1. Completion of a PhD qualication in either evo-
lution, genetics, bioinformatics or an equivalent com-
bination of qualications and experience in a similar
molecular/quantitative eld. 2. Demonstrated molecu-
lar laboratory skills, including PCR and ideally, high-
throughput sequencing. 3. A proven research track
record in bioinformatics related to either genomics, phy-
logenetic inference or morphometrics. 4. Well-developed
interpersonal skills with a demonstrated ability to work
collaboratively as part of a team. 5. Proven ability to
work eectively with minimal supervision to initiate,
execute and report research within prescribed timelines.
6. Well-developed written and oral communication skills
with a demonstrated track record in publishing in high
quality journals and presenting at conferences. 7. Abil-
ity to actively participate in and contribute to estab-
lishing and maintaining an eective safe and healthy
workplace.
Desirable selection criteria:
1. Demonstrated experience with coding languages, ide-
ally related to developing bioinformatic or evolutionary
inference tools. 2. Publication record in vertebrate
(especially mammal) evolution, ecology, morphology or
palaeontology.
To apply, follow the link from:
http://www.mphillipsbiol.com/contacts{vacancies.html
You will need to supply your CV, referee details, and
an address to the selection criteria.88 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Informal enquiries to Matt Phillips
m9.phillips@qut.edu.au +61 7 3138 4805 http://-
www.mphillipsbiol.com/ For human resources details
associated with application, contact Anya Levina (HR
Advisor) a.levina@qut.edu.au +61 7 3138 4134
Matthew Phillips <m9.phillips@qut.edu.au >
Rostock Germany Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Scientic Researcher with a focus on (evo-
lutionary) bioinformatics in Rostock (Baltic Coast), Ger-
many
The Institute for Biostatistics and Informatics in
Medicine and Ageing Research at the Rostock University
Medical Center (Germany) seeks, pending budgetary
approval, and starting in Mai/June to be continued for
up to 5 years, candidates for the position of a
Full-time Postdoctoral Scientic Researcher, with a fo-
cus on bioinformatics, in an EU-funded project.
Your tasks:
- Database development for data on health and ageing.
- Multi-Species Omics data analyses (gene, protein and
metabolite abundance).
- Evolutionary comparative analysis of worm, mouse and
human data.
- Machine learning and network-biology based analyses
and data integration.
- Writing of scientic reports and papers.
- Website development and maintenance.
Advantages for you:
- A stimulating environment where your contribution
can have a real impact.
- Researching the mechanisms behind healthy aging is
fascinating, and gaining importance in the light of de-
mographic development.
- A dedicated and experienced team, fun to work with.
What you need to bring to the table:
- Doctorate related to bioinformatics, or a research eld
in the medical/life/natural sciences.
- Programming/scripting skills, e.g. in R.
- Strong communication skills (oral presentations and
in writing).- (Desirable:) Project management experience.
If this describes you and your intentions then please send
your application until March 30 to bioinfo-jobs@med.uni-
rostock.de in a single PDF document, consisting of:
- CV.
- Brief statement of research interests and qualications.
- contact information for 2-4 scientists who may write a
letter of recommendation.
For further information you may contact:
Prof. Dr. Fuellen, bioinfo-jobs@med.uni-rostock.de, Di-
rector of the Institute for Biostatistics and Informatics
in Medicine and Ageing Research.
For most of the year, Rostock (at the Baltic Coast) is
a number one vacation area in Germany, with a very
pleasant climate and nice beaches nearby.
The University strives for a high proportion of women
in research and teaching. Applications from qualied
female scientists are therefore particularly welcome. Dis-
abled persons will be given preference in lling vacan-
cies within the existing legal provisions if equally quali-
ed. Reimbursement of travelling costs for interviews
is not possible according to the rules of the state of
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
Georg Fuellen
bioinfo-jobs <bioinfo-jobs@med.uni-rostock.de >
SangerInst ParasiteGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow - Parasite Genomics
Salary range: $30202 to $37860 per annum plus excel-
lent benets.
We are seeking to recruit an enthusiastic and ambitious
Postdoctoral Fellow to play a leading role in a large,
collaborative project using genomic approaches to un-
derstand the genetics of anthelminthic drug resistance in
Haemonchus contortus and Teladorsagia circumcincta,
the most important gastrointestinal nematode parasites
of small ruminants. The post is funded by BBSRC,
and will be for 3 years in the rst instance, with the
possibility of extension for an additional 2 years. Key
aspects of the role are the analysis and interpretation of
whole genome resequencing data from a genetic cross, of
populations of worms from UK farms, and of individual
worms from the same populations. The role will alsoApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 89
include working with colleagues to produce a reference
genome for T. circumcincta.
The project aims to leverage the understanding of
anthelminthic resistance we gain to develop practi-
cal guidance for on-farm management, and so will in-
volve collaboration with vets, parasitologists, modelers
and economists (https://bugconsortium.wordpress.com).
Strong candidates will need excellent communication
and organizational skills, as explaining the results of
genomic analyses to these professionals in an accurate
but accessible way will be critical. The post will be
based with the parasite genomics group, a diverse and
collaborative research environment, and the institute
has unparalleled resources and expertise available to
support genomic research.
This post is xed-term for 3 years in the rst instance,
possible extension to 5 years. Closing date for ap-
plications is: 29th March 2015. Please see http://-
tinyurl.com/q3v8wzw for further details and to apply
James Cotton Senior Scientist Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge. CB10 1SA UK
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk 01223 494864
The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is operated by
Genome Research Limited, a charity registered in Eng-
land with number 1021457 and a company registered in
England with number 2742969, whose registered oce
is 215 Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
jc17@sanger.ac.uk
Senckenberg Frankfurt
CommunityEvolution
Postdoc *\Molecular **community ecology and evolu-
tion"*
**
A postdoctoral research position in *molecular **com-
munity ecology and evolution*is available in the lab of
Prof. Imke Schmitt at the Senckenberg Biodiversity and
Climate Research Centre and Goethe University Frank-
furt. You will have the opportunity to participate in
ongoing projects and develop your own research prole.
Attractive computing infrastructure (high-RAM com-
puters, clouds and clusters) and high-end experimental
facilities are available.*Your tasks: *
ecological and evolutionary processes in complex com-
munities using high-throughput sequencing (metabar-
coding, metagenomics, or metatranscriptomics)
structural and functional change in communities of mi-
croorganisms in response to environmental change**
**
*Your prole: *
.D. in evolutionary or computational biology, ecology or
a related eld
in metabarcoding of environmental samples, metage-
nomics, metatranscriptomics, regardless of the organism
group (experiences with fungi/prokaryotes/small eukary-
otes are a plus)
in bioinformatics of next generation sequencing data
and in subsequent ecological analyses
background in ecological theory
record of prior publication in metabarcod-
ing/metagenomics/metatranscriptomics
skills in R, python, bash, perl are welcome
written and oral English language skills
Salary and benets are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E 13). The contract should
start on *June, 1 ^st 2015 *and will be restricted to
three years. The Senckenberg Research Institute sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main, Ger-
many. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung.
Please send your application before *April,**1 ^st 2015*
preferably by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf docu-
ment), mentioning the reference of this position *(Ref.
8.5-1)* and including a cover letter detailing research
interests and experience, a C.V., a copy of your PhD
certicate, and a list of three professional references.
Please be sure to highlight skills and experience related
to genome assembly, statistics, bioinformatics, or pro-
gramming and send your application to the address
below
Dr. Tobias Schneck
c/o Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de90 EvolDir April 1, 2015
For scientic enquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Imke
Schmitt, imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de.
Am Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg (FIS) ist in der
Abteilung Limnologie und Naturschutzforschung ab dem
01
Imke Schmitt <imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de >
SLU Sweden
PlantPathogenEvolution
One year postdoc stipend on Solanum - Phytophthora
interaction
We are seeking a postdoc for one year that will be based
at the Department of Plant Protection Biology, unit
of Resistance Biology at Swedish University of Agricul-
tural Sciences (SLU) in Alnarp, Sweden (hosted by ~Asa
Lankinen, Laura Grenville-Briggs and Erik Andreasson).
The postdoc will work on plant pathogen interactions
between wild and cultivated Solanum and the oomycete
Phytophthora infestans.
Late blight in potato, caused by infection with the
oomycete Phytophthora infestans, leads to large eco-
nomic losses. Introduction of new resistant potato vari-
eties is countered by rapid evolution of new pathogenic-
ity factors in P. infestans. However, increased insights
into plant-pathogen interactions in natural systems can
aid the development of sustainable crop management
practices. The postdoc will work within a project that
studies interactions between P. infestans and its hosts -
potato and three wild Solanum species found in Sweden
- and combines ecology and evolutionary biology with
genetics and molecular mechanisms to answer questions
related to pathogen virulence and plant defence to late
blight disease. The work will involve both screening
of resistance and tolerance to P. infestans in the lab
and eld work to explore potential overwintering of P.
infestans in wild Solanum populations.
Requirements: A PhD degree in biology or biology-
related elds, not older than 3 years (as the main aim
is training of the candidate, and living costs will be
covered by a stipend, 20,000 SEK, approx. 2,200 euro,
per month). Candidates should be uent in spoken
and written English. Previous experiences from work
on plant-pathogen interactions in the lab or eld, ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology are merits. The candidate
must also be capable of independent planning, execution
and evaluation of experiments, and be able to functionwell in a group. Applicants that hold a driving license
will be evaluated favourably.
Starting date: By agreement during late spring/early
summer 2015, preferably in May or as soon as possible.
Please send your cv, a motivation for why you are well
suited for this work and contact details of at least two
references to ~Asa Lankinen, asa.lankinen@slu.se, no later
than 7th of April.
Stefan Andersson <stefan.andersson@biol.lu.se >
SwanseaU SalmonEpigenetics
Post-doctoral position in epigenetic management of
stress and disease resistance in Atlantic salmon @
Swansea University
Institutions: Swansea University, Cardi University,
University of Aberdeen, University of East Anglia
Collaborators: Landcatch, Marine Harvest
To meet global food demands, aquaculture is expected
to intensify sh production, but stress during intensi-
cation can also compromise animal health, particularly
during early life when the teleost immune system is
being formed. Many farmed sh are already highly in-
bred and further intensication will likely make them
more susceptible to infectious diseases and pathogens
more detrimental. Stress during intensication could
change the expression of genes via epigenetic program-
ming, but knowledge of sh epigenomes is very limited.
We are looking for 1 Postdoctoral Research Fellow to
work on an exciting project that will use a multidisci-
plinary, cutting-edge approach to investigate how stress
experienced during early life can change the epigenome
and subsequently aect the ability of sh to respond to
pathogens.
The project will involve a BACI design to manipulate
stress in Atlantic salmon during embryogenesis and as-
sess its eects on subsequent gut health and tness by
carrying out a gut bacterial community proling using
metagenomics. As a tness indicator it will also ex-
amine uctuating asymmetry and challenge fry with
Saprolegnia parasitica, a pervasive sh pathogen, and
monitor fry survival in relation to expression of immune-
related genes through RNAseq, and patterns of DNA
methylation. Following sh from fertilization to rst
feeding, will allow for the rst time to relate the eects
of early stress to (1) health, (2) an indicator of tnessApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 91
and (3) resistance to parasites, and examine these in
relation to variation in the genome and the epigenome.
A Research Fellow position is available at Swansea Uni-
versity for 22 months starting June 2015, starting salary
approx. $31,000. Travelling to partner Universities
(Cardi and Aberdeen mainly) will be required to com-
plete parts of the work.
Applicants are expected to match the following criteria:
- Have a PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology,
Genetics). - Have published, conrmed accepted or in
press, at least 3-4 papers in ISI accredited peer-reviewed
journals by the starting date of the position. (Appli-
cants with longer periods of postdoctoral experience will
be expected to have proportionally higher numbers).
Desirable criteria are: experience working on sh, ge-
netics/genomics background, experience programming
in R/Python.
Informal enquiries can be directed to: Carlos Garc a
de Leaniz (c.garciadeleaniz@swansea.ac.uk) or Sonia
Consuegra (s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk)
\CONSUEGRA S." <s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk >
Toronto PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Positions in Population and Medical Ge-
nomics
Postdoctoral positions are available in the population
and medical genomics laboratories of Philip Awadalla
in Toronto at U. of Toronto and Ontario Institute for
Cancer Research. Researchers will be involved in analy-
sis, development of methods and next-gen sequencing
experiments. The successful candidate will be nearing
the completion/having a PhD or equivalent postdoctoral
training in genomics or population/ statistical genetics.
Postdoctoral research scientists can work on projects of
their choosing related to the labs current projects.
Some recent publications from the lab are listed below:
http://www.nature.com/ng/journal/vaop/ncurrent/-
full/ng.3216.html http://www.sciencemag.org/content/-
344/6182/413 http://genome.cshlp.org/content/23/3/-
419
Possible projects include: 1) Capturing germ-line, so-
matic, tissue specic and cell-specic mutation and
recombination events. Fitness consequences of muta-
tions from genome-wide collections of empirical popu-
lation and comparative data. 2) Next-generation ap-proaches (whole genome, exome, RNA-seq, methylation
and CHiP-seq data) for genomic epidemiology studies
of large population cohorts. Our lab is directing the lon-
gitudinal collection of genomic material for the CARTa-
GENE population program (www.cartagene.qc.ca), in-
vestigating the genetics of endophenotypes from among
over 40,000 French-Canadian participants, and the Cana-
dian Partnership for Tomorrow Project, which has en-
listed 300,000 participants across Canada. 3) Devel-
oping methods for large scale cohort data integration
of phenotypes and genotypes through a new Genome
Canada Innovation Centre for bioinformatics and ge-
nomics. 4) Identify genetic and molecular control points
associated with simple and complex disorders oncologi-
cal/hematological phenotypes or diseases including im-
munodeciencies, child-hood cancer, and sickle cell ane-
mia.
Our lab also works in close collaboration with a number
of research laboratories throughout Montreal, and inter-
nationally, including new programs in cancer with the
Ontario Institute of Cancer Research (U. of Toronto),
projects on neurological disorders with the Montreal
Neurologic Institute, and malaria with programs in west
and central Africa. Projects are well supported by insti-
tutional resources for next generation sequencing and
bioninformatics. Interested individuals should please
write to Philip Awadalla (philip.awadalla@oicr.on.ca or
philip.awadalla@mcgill.ca).
Sincerely, Philip Awadalla, PhD
Philip.Awadalla@oicr.on.ca
UAberdeen AvianMatingSystems
We seek a Research Fellow in Evolutionary Ecology to
join the research group of Professor Jane Reid at the
University of Aberdeen, United Kingdom.
The post is central to a European Research Council-
funded project that aims to rstly, build new theory
explaining the evolution and persistence of mating sys-
tems and reproductive strategies, and secondly, test
this theory using more than 20 years of complete life-
history and pedigree data from free-living song sparrows
(Melospiza melodia).
The successful applicant will undertake extensive sta-
tistical analyses of the long-term song sparrow dataset
in order to elucidate patterns of variation in extra-pair
reproduction in relation to temporal and spatial varia-92 EvolDir April 1, 2015
tion in population social structure and relatedness. The
post-holder will work in close collaboration with Profes-
sor Reid, other members of the ERC project team and
key international collaborators to undertake appropriate
analyses and thereby test key components of evolution-
ary theory. The post-holder will also have substantial
exibility to develop their own ideas and approaches to
the overall problem, potentially including opportunities
for eldwork as well as data analysis.
The post provides an exciting opportunity for a highly
motivated researcher with expertise in statistical anal-
ysis, mating system variation, evolutionary ecology
and/or behavioural ecology, and interest in confronting
evolutionary theory with data from wild populations.
It provides an opportunity to work within a dynamic
and successful international research team, with am-
ple opportunities for further international collabora-
tion, high-prole publication and career development
(see http://www.abdn.ac.uk/biologicalsci/sta/details/-
jane.reid).
The post is funded by the European Research Council
and will be oered for a period of 2 years.
Full details are available at http://www.abdn.ac.uk/-
jobs/, click on 'External applicants' and search under
School of Biological Sciences. Closing date is April 1st
2015.
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in
Scotland, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar Dheathain
na charthannas cl?raichte ann an Alba, ?ir. SC013683.
\Reid, Dr Jane M." <jane.reid@abdn.ac.uk >
UArizona 2
GenomicsInvasivePlantAdaptation
NOTE: Updated job description and start dates below.
Two postdoctoral research positions funded by the
United States Department of Agriculture are avail-
able to work with Dr. Katrina Dlugosch ( http://-
dlugoschlab.arizona.edu/) and Dr. David Baltrus (
http://cals.arizona.edu/research/baltruslab) at the Uni-
versity of Arizona on the ecological genomics of adapta-
tion of resource allocation and microbial interactions in
the invasive plant yellow starthistle (Centaurea solsti-
tialis). We are investigating the evolution of resource al-
location and species interactions during range expansion
and the impact of evolution on the spread of invading
populations, and we are seeking postdoctoral researcherswith interests and experience in these areas.
One successful candidate will be responsible for next-
generation genomic sequence generation and bioinfor-
matic analyses, particularly by 1) analyzing metage-
nomic surveys of plant-associated microbial communi-
ties and 2) quantifying rates of gene ow across the
genome in invading plant populations using a high-
throughput RADseq next-generation approach. Ad-
ditional opportunities will be available for the pursuit
of related projects of interest to the candidate. Pre-
ferred start date in late 2015. To apply, submit a state-
ment of interest and curriculum vitae to job #57623
at https://www.uacareertrack.com A second successful
candidate will be responsible for 1) mapping QTL asso-
ciated with the genetic basis of variation in resistance
to bacterial pathogens using large-scale greenhouse ex-
periments and genome-wide RADseq markers, and 2)
quantifying population-level impacts of infection using
phenotypic data collection in combination with existing
demographic models in collaboration with Dr. Sarah
Swope (Mills College). Additional opportunities will
be available for the pursuit of related projects of in-
terest to the candidate. Preferred start date in late
2015 or early 2016. To apply, submit a statement of
interest and curriculum vitae to job #57624 at https://-
www.uacareertrack.com Positions are for one year, with
reappointment for up to two additional years subject to
satisfactory performance. Positions are open until lled.
Minimum qualications *PhD in Biology or a related
eld *Authorship of peer-reviewed publications of re-
search in a eld related to the position *Strong commu-
nication skills *Ability to work independently and in a
team
Preferred Qualications (Applicants without these skills
will be considered): *Experience producing and analyz-
ing molecular genetic data, particularly next-generation
genomic data *Experience culturing bacterial colonies
*Experience rearing plants under standard greenhouse
conditions *Experience collecting and documenting eld
specimens
Inquiries about the positions may be directed to Dr.
Katrina Dlugosch ( kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu).
{
Katrina M. Dlugosch, PhD katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com
Katrina Dlugosch <katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com >April 1, 2015 EvolDir 93
UBath EvolutionaryGenomics
SocialMicrobes
We are excited to be recruiting a Postdoctoral Research
Associate (PDRA) to work on a project focused on un-
derstanding the evolutionary processes shaping natural
variation in a social amoeba. The project combines
large scale genome sequencing with high throughput
phenotyping to dissect the molecular basis of natural
variation in social and non-social traits, with a goal of
identifying the patterns of selection shaping underlying
sequence variation. The PDRA will contribute primarily
to genome reconstruction, association analyses (includ-
ing both GWAS and candidate gene based approaches)
and application of molecular evolution models to se-
quence data, but will also contribute to the generation
of data in the initial phase of the project. The project
also oers the successful candidate exibility to pursue
other questions using the data, including those related
to social evolution, the genotype-phenotype relationship,
biogeography, and speciation.
The successful candidate will have a background in evolu-
tionary or statistical genetics (including bioinformatics).
Skills related to the handling of large scale sequence data
are essential as is the ability to work both independently
and collaboratively as part of a research team. Can-
didates should have a demonstrated ability to publish
high impact science as well as good interpersonal and
communication skills. Some skills in molecular quanti-
tative genetics and the analysis of molecular evolution
are preferred but not required.
The successful candidate will be based in Prof Jason
Wolf's Lab at the University of Bath, working in close
collaboration with Prof Laurence Hurst. The candidate
will also work with collaborators at the University of
Manchester and the Federal University of S~ ao Carlos
(Brazil).
The position is xed-term of 36 months at pounds 31,342
and is set to start in May 2015, with later start dates
subject to approval by the funding agency.
Informal enquiries may be directed to Prof Jason Wolf
via email: j.b.wolf@bath.ac.uk (telephone or Skype con-
sultations can be arranged)
For further information and to apply please see
www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SS3006 Jason
Wolf <jason@evolutionarygenetics.org >UCDavis DevelopmentalEvolution-
aryGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available at the University of
California - Davis to study the molecular mechanisms,
phylogenetic patterns, and functional consequences of
transcriptome evolution in Drosophila. ^A The project is
based on the integration of RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, trans-
genic manipulation of gene expression and DNA-protein
binding, and quantitative phylogenetic analysis to un-
derstand the roles of gene cooption, gene duplication,
and de novo gene origin in the evolution of tissue-specic
regulatory circuits. ^AThis work involves a collaboration
between the labs of Artyom Kopp (developmental ge-
netics and evo-devo), David Begun (evolutionary and
population genomics), and Brian Moore (phylogenetic
and comparative analysis). ^A Additional aspects of this
project may range from cell type specication to the
evolution of enhancer sequences. ^APostdocs will be
encouraged to develop independent research reecting
their own interests, within the broad eld of develop-
mental and evolutionary genomics.
Candidates should have demonstrated expertise in ex-
perimental molecular genetics and genomics, with an
emphasis on RNA-seq and ChIP-seq analysis, genome
annotation, and comparative genomics. ^A Some expe-
rience in developmental biology and transgenic meth-
ods is also desirable. ^A Initial appointment is for one
year, extendable by mutual agreement. ^AOur labs and
the entire department provide a very supportive atmo-
sphere. ^A The broader research environment at UC -
Davis oers postdoctoral fellows chances for collabo-
ration with leading experts in elds ranging from cell
and developmental biology to evolutionary genomics
and phylogenetics. ^ANorthern California, where Davis
is located, provides outstanding recreational opportu-
nities. ^A Interested applicants should contact Artyom
Kopp (akopp@ucdavis.edu) with a CV, a brief statement
of research interests and experience, and the names of
three references.
akopp@ucdavis.edu94 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UChicago EvolutionaryGenomics
Background: A March of Dimes/Burroughs Wellcome
Trust funded post-doctoral position is available in the
Lynch Lab, in the Department of Human Genetics at
The University of Chicago, for a highly motivated sci-
entist to study the mechanisms that underlie the evo-
lutionary origin of progesterone responsiveness and de-
cidualization in endometrial stromal cells. The project
will use comparative transcriptomics to identify genes
that evolved endometrial expression during the origins
of pregnancy, and siRNA-screens to characterize the
functions of recruited genes. The project is expected
to contribute to a basic understanding of the mecha-
nisms that underlie decidualization and the evolution
of pregnancy.
Skills: Candidate must have a Ph.D. in molecular or
cell biology, genetics, or a related discipline, be self-
motivated, have excellent communication and organiza-
tional skills. A strong background with basic methods
in molecular biology (for example: PCR, cloning, se-
quencing, Western blotting, protein-protein interaction
assays such as co-IP) and demonstrated expertise in cell
culture and gene expression manipulation (for example:
siRNA mediated gene knockdown and overexpression)
are required. Previous experience or strong interests in
gene expression analyses, bioinformatics, and genome
editing are desirable.
Application information: To apply, please email a cover
letter describing previous research experience, current
research interests, and career goals, a current CV, and
the names and contact information for three profes-
sional references to Dr. Vincent Lynch at lynchlabposi-
tions@gmail.com.
Consideration of applications will begin immediately
and continue until the position is lled.
Lab website: http://lynchlab.uchicago.edu Location:
Chicago, IL USA
\Vincent J. Lynch, Ph.D." <vjlynch@uchicago.edu >UCollege London TetrapodEvolution
Morphological evolution and modularity of tetrapods
The Goswami Lab in the Department of Genetics, Evo-
lution & Environment at University College London is
now accepting applications for a postdoctoral research
position in evolutionary morphology and diversication
of tetrapods. The successful applicant will be employed
for three years to work as part of a team on a European
Research Council-funded project conducting a large-
scale quantitative analysis of evolutionary rates, mor-
phological disparity, and phenotypic integration across
tetrapods. The postdoctoral researcher will focus on a
subclade of sauropsids ('reptiles') and will be responsi-
ble for building a comprehensive dataset of 3-D images
spanning their living and extinct diversity and extract-
ing surface morphometric data from images. With these
data, they will conduct extensive analyses to reconstruct
the patterns and processes underlying ecomorphological
evolution and identify the major intrinsic and extrin-
sic factors shaping clade diversity. Further duties will
involve supervision of short-term undergraduate and
Master's student projects, assistance in eld expedi-
tions, and uploading new data to online resources for
free dissemination.
The postdoctoral researcher may take up their position
from June 2015, although there is exibility in start
time. Applications for this position will be accepted via
the UCL online application system until April 7, 2015.
Informal enquiries and requests for further details can
be directed to Anjali Goswami (a.goswami@ucl.ac.uk).
Project Backgound:
Morphological variation is the foundation of evolution-
ary theory, but the basic inuences on morphological
variation are still poorly understood. Developmental
interactions are often discussed as a major control on
variation, but direct analysis of this hypothesis has been
hindered by the lack of quantitative comparative data.
Similarly, robust analyses analysing both extrinsic and
intrinsic inuences on morphological evolution are often
limited by data availability.
Using advanced biological imaging techniques (CT- and
laser scanning) combined with surface-based
3-D morphometrics, this project will build on existing
work in mammals by providing the rst broad compara-
tive data on modularity and disparity of skulls, jaws andApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 95
limbs for living and fossil tetrapods. Each team member
in this project will focus on building and analysing an
extensive 3-D morphometric dataset for a large clade
on non-mammalian tetrapods, such as amphibians and
sauropsids, which have incredible diversity in reproduc-
tive strategies, ecology and morphology. This project
will require extensive international travel for data collec-
tion, as well as running analyses and implementing new
code in R. In addition to working with new data, the
postdoctoral researcher will integrate data provided by
project collaborators in order to maximize taxonomic
representation. In combination with existing data from
an ontogenetic sequence of Xenopus, and juvenile and
adult neontological and paleontological specimens of
mammals, this project will produce a robust analysis of
the relationships among modularity, morphological dis-
parity, evolutionary rates across tetrapods and how each
of these responds to major life history and ecological
transitions as well as large-scale biotic and environmen-
tal events.
In addition to training in biological imaging and quan-
titative analyses, there will be opportunities for inter-
national palaeontological eldwork during the course of
this project.
Closing date: April 7, 2015
Details and link to the UCL application site available
at www.goswamilab.com UCL Department / Division
Division of Biosciences
Specic unit / Sub department
Genetics, Evolution & Environment
Grade
7
Hours
Full Time
Salary (inclusive of London allowance)
33,353 to 35,196 per annum
Key Requirements
Applicants must have a PhD (awarded or about to be
awarded) in relevant discipline. Experience of vertebrate
morphology and experience of morphometrics and com-
parative methods. Applicants must also have a proven
track record of high quality research in vertebrate evo-
lution, comparative macroevolutionary analyses or a
related eld.
Appointment at Grade 7 is dependent upon having been
awarded a PhD. Or if about to submit a PhD, the ap-
pointment will be at Grade 6B (29,193 - 30,783 salary,
inclusive of London Allowance) with payment at Grade7 being backdated to the date of nal submission of the
PhD thesis.
For further information about the post please contact
Dr Anjali Goswami on a.goswami@ucl.ac.uk
For further information on the application pro-
cess please contact Biosciences Stang on bio-
sciences.stang@ucl.ac.uk
Dr. Anjali Goswami Reader in Palaeobiology Depart-
ment of Genetics, Evolution, and Environment and
Department of Earth Sciences University College Lon-
don Darwin Building 218A Gower Street London WC1E
6BT +44 (0)20 7679 2190
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia Bioinformatics
POSTDOCTORAL BIOINFORMATICIAN, UNIVER-
SITY OF EAST ANGLIA, UK
A postdoctoral bioinformatician position (Senior Re-
search Associate, ref. RA1169) is available for work on
the genetic basis of worker behaviour and caste deter-
mination in bees at the School of Biological Sciences,
University of East Anglia, UK.
The postdoctoral bioinformatician will work on two
projects, funded by NERC and BBSRC, in a team su-
pervised by Professors Andrew Bourke and Tamas Dal-
may. A common aim of the projects is to use RNA-Seq
to prole gene expression dierences in adult and lar-
val bumble bees (Bombus spp.). The wider aim is to
elucidate the molecular-genetic basis of worker repro-
duction and caste determination in eusocial insects. The
postholder will conduct bioinformatic analyses of tran-
scriptomic and related data generated by the team. The
salary will be $31,342 to $37,394 per annum.
Applicants should have a PhD in a relevant area, and
be able to full the essential criteria on the person spec-
ication. This full time post is available from 1 April
2015 for a xed term period of 29 months, but must
end by 31 August 2017. Informal enquiries to: Andrew
Bourke (a.bourke@uea.ac.uk).
Closing date: 12 noon on 18 March 2015.96 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Further particulars and an application form are available
at: www.uea.ac.uk/hr/vacancies/ or Tel. +44 (0)1603
593493.
\Tracey Chapman (BIO)"
<Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >
UFlorida
AppliedEvolutionaryPhysiology
A postdoctoral position in applied ecological and evolu-
tionary stress physiology is available in Dan Hahn's lab
at the University of Florida.
Our work takes a vertically integrated approach to un-
derstanding both the plastic mechanisms that organisms
use to rapidly respond to environmental perturbation,
and the consequences of this rapid physiological plastic-
ity for organismal performance from evolutionary and
applied perspectives.
The initial appointment will be for 2 years starting as
early as summer 2015, with extension for additional
years based on performance. The postdoctoral asso-
ciate is expected to spend 2/3-3/4 of their time on a
project centered around understanding how exposure
to hypoxic and/or hypercapnic atmospheres can alter
the physiology of insects to promote cross-resistance to
other stressors (i.e., hormesis). The remaining 1/3-1/4
of time will be available for other creative activities
related to the postdoctoral associates interests, particu-
larly if they pertain to other projects in our lab group
(see Additional Projects Section below).
The Main Project: Exposure to low-oxygen environ-
ments can be damaging in the long term, but many
insects are highly resistant to short-term exposures to
hypoxia and hypercapnia. In fact, short term exposures
to modied atmospheres can promote cross-tolerance to
other stressors, including oxidative stressors. Here we
will investigate how exposure to modied atmospheres
can aect insect physiology to impart resistance to irra-
diation stress (from gamma sources or x-rays). Speci-
cally, the postdoc will: 1) study the eects of modied
atmospheres on irradiation tolerance on several insect
pests, 2) investigate the fundamental physiological mech-
anisms that are associated with enhanced resistance to
irradiation stress, and 3) use this knowledge in a physi-
ologically guided approach to developing biomarkers for
irradiation stress and resistance. Applications for this
work include expanding the use of low-dose irradiationas an alternative to chemical pesticides to prevent the
movement of insect pests in fresh fruits and vegetables.
This work is a recent area of inquiry in our lab that
has implications for both our basic understanding of
ecological and evolutionary physiology and applications
to agriculture and international trade. Although we
have not published much in this area yet, two related
papers from our lab on irradiation biology in the context
of sexual selection and biological control by the sterile
insect technique and one general review of irradiation
as a phytosanitary treatment are listed below.
Lopez-Martinez, G., and D.A. Hahn. 2012 Short-term
anoxic conditioning hormesis boosts antioxidant de-
fenses, lowers oxidative damage following irradiation,
and enhances male sexual performance in the Caribbean
fruit y, Anastrepha suspensa. Journal of Experimental
Biology, 215:2150-2161.
Lopez-Martinez, G. and D.A. Hahn. 2014. Early-life
hormetic treatments decrease irradiation-induced oxida-
tive damage, increase longevity, and enhance sexual per-
formance during old age in the Caribbean fruit y. PLoS
One 9(1): e88128. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0088128
Hallman, G.J., N.M. Brilz, L.J. Zettler, and I.C Win-
borne. 2010. Factors aecting ionizing radiation phy-
tosanitary treatments, and implications for research and
generic treatments. Journal of Economic Entomology.
103:1950-1963.
The postdoctoral fellow must be interested in working
at the boundary between basic and applied sciences and
must be interested in working in a multidisciplinary
and collaborative atmosphere. Knowledge of physiology,
respirometry, biochemistry, multivariate data analysis,
and high-throughput screening, or strong interest in
learning these techniques is needed. International appli-
cants are encouraged to apply, but a strong command
of spoken English is a must for this position in addi-
tion to demonstrating the ability to eectively write
peer-reviewed manuscripts in English.
The Setting: The University of Florida is located in
Gainesville and oers a rich scientic community for evo-
lution, ecology, physiology/cell biology, and genomics
that spans many departments including Entomology
and Nematology (the academic home for this appoint-
ment), Biology, Wildlife, Forestry, the Genomics Insti-
tute, the US Department of Agriculture, and the College
of Medicine. Our lab currently includes 3 postdoctoral
associates, 3 PhD students, and 9 undergraduates with
which you would interact daily. There will be substan-
tial opportunities for interdisciplinary training across
units at our institution and within our network of col-
laborators, as well as additional training opportunities
in teaching/instruction and scientic outreach to theApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 97
public. Our group has an excellent record of career
development with former postdocs and students placed
in tenure-track academic positions, biotech industry po-
sitions, and government science. We strongly recognize
the value
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHaifa PhD PDF Phylogenetics
A Postdoctoral and Ph.D. positions in Computational
Genomics and Phylogenetics are available at the In-
stitute of Evolution at the University of Haifa. The
research projects will be done in collaboration with the
Phylogenetics and Computational Genomics lab of Prof.
Sagi Snir. The positions are targeted to two projects:
1. Tree reconstruction in light of conicting signals. Real
life data provide high degree of incongruent data that
needs to be reconciled into a single tree. This is normally
done by means of supertree methods. We have devel-
oped several approaches to this that rely on non trivial
algorithmic and computational/mathematical tools. We
decompose the inputs into the most basic informational
unit and summarise them across all the data. This data
aggregation provides us with information that is invisi-
ble at the single tree level or at the level of the entire
data collection. Using this novel techniques we are able
to distinguish between e.g. toxic and non-toxic genes.
We investigate both theoretical and practical questions
associated with these approaches.
2. Detection and analysis of horizontal gene transfer
(HGT) in prokaryotes. HGT is a major factor in prokary-
otic evolution and plays a signicant role in developing
antibiotic resistance. Current methods rely on a very
strong and clear HGT signal that is frequently absent,
e.g. HGT between strains of a species. We have de-
veloped several novel methods to detect HGT where
existing methods fail. The methods use evolutionary
signals, unique to HGT, that are detected by rigorous
statistical approaches.
The successful candidates must have familiarity with
computational/mathematical biology. Essential require-
ments include prociency in computer-programming
skills, such as C/C++/Java and scripting languages(e.g. Perl, Phyton), demonstrated ability in applying
the devised algorithms. Duties of the role will include
algorithm development, implementation and testing by
simulation and application on real biological data.
The Institute of Evolution is world leading in broad as-
pects of evolution, both theoretical and practical. The
team of Prof. Snir is characterized by works with both
algorithmic and evolutionary appeal with ample collab-
oration with other leading labs around the world.
Applicants should send a CV, a statement of research
interests and the names and contact information for 3
references. Review of the applications will start imme-
diately until positions are lled. The initial contract is
for the postdoc is one year with possibility of extension.
For Ph.D. students, the contract is for three years with
possible additional year extension.
Please send applications by email to:
Prof. Sagi Snir, Department of Evolutionary and Envi-
ronmental Biology and The Institute of Evolution, Uni-
versity of Haifa Mount Carmel, Haifa 31905 ISRAEL
Tel: (972) 4 828-8774 Email: ssagi@research.haifa.ac.il
sagi.snir@gmail.com
UJyvaskyla HumanSocialBehavior
PostDoc: Human Social Behavior University of
Jyv askyl a, Finland
JOB DESCRIPTION: The postdoctoral researcher will
work in the project \Evolution of Conict and Coopera-
tion in Human Groups", funded by the Academy of Fin-
land and led by Dr. Mikael Puurtinen. In this project,
we study factors inuencing levels of cooperation and
competition in human groups, and are especially inter-
ested in the interplay of within-group cooperation and
between-group competition. The main focus of the post-
doctoral researcher will be on the design and execution of
decision-making experiments to investigate e.g. the role
communication, social sanctions, and group identiers
have in mediating the nature of within- and between-
group interactions. However, there is considerable scope
for the postdoctoral researcher to develop his/her own
research ideas. The project involves development of
theory to complement the empirical studies, and the-
oretically oriented researchers are also encouraged to
apply.
For published work on the topic by the research98 EvolDir April 1, 2015
group see: Between-group competition and human
cooperation <http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/-
content/276/1655/355 >. Proc R Soc B 2009.
Costly punishment prevails in intergroup con-
ict<http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/-
early/2011/03/30/rspb.2011.0252 >. Proc R Soc B 2011.
The joint emergence of group competition and within-
group cooperation <http://www.sciencedirect.com/-
science/article/pii/S1090513814001408 >. Evolution
and Human Behavior 2015.
DURATION: The position will be lled for a maxi-
mum of two years. The starting date for the position is
exible, between May 1st 2015 and January 1st 2016.
SALARY: euro 37,560 - 43,800 per annum, depending
on qualications. Healthcare included.
QUALIFICATIONS: PhD in Biology, Psychology, Eco-
nomics, or a related eld. The applicant must possess a
thorough understanding of evolutionary concepts. Ex-
cellent written and good oral English skills are required.
The applicant is expected to have good skills in experi-
mental design and in statistical analysis of experimental
data. Experience in programming and/or mathematical
modelling is considered an asset.
THE PLACE & THE PEOPLE: The position is at the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Jyv askyl a, Finland. To quote a re-
cent international evaluation: \This is a very happy,
collaborative and successful department with highly mo-
tivated and enthusiastic members of uniform high qual-
ity." The postdoc will join a group led by Dr. Mikael
Puurtinen <http://users.jyu./ ~hemipu/ >(Academy
Research Fellow 2013-2017), which at the moment con-
sists of the PI, one Post-Doc, two PhD students and
one MSc student. The applicant will also become a
member of the Centre of Excellence in Biological In-
teractions (https://www.jyu./bioenv/en/divisions/coe-
interactions), which oers excellent networking possibil-
ities among top scientists.
APPLICATION: In the application, include a
brief letter of motivation, CV, and contact de-
tails of two senior academics available for refer-
ence. View the full job announcement and submit
the application <https://www.saimanet.com/-
certiahome/open jobview.html?did=5600&jc=-
12&id=0000905&lang= >by April 15, 2015.
(link address: https://www.saimanet.com/-
certiahome/open jobview.html?did=5600&jc=-
12&id=0000905&lang=)
INFORMAL QUERIES are welcome, send email to
mikael.puurtinen@jyu..
Dr. Mikael Puurtinen Department of Biological and En-vironmental Science Centre of Excellence in Biological
Interactions University of Jyv askyl a, Finland tel. +358
50 3758975
\Puurtinen, Mikael" <mikael.puurtinen@jyu. >
ULausanne Bioinformatics
Postdoc in bioinformatics
A postdoc position is available on a project to study the
evolutionary dynamics of genomes and transcriptomes.
The postdoc will work in collaboration on two projects:
(1) Evo-devo genomics, in the Robinson-Rechavi lab:
evolutionary study of the duplication history of chordate
genomes, including de novo assembly of a Mediterranean
amphioxus genome from PacBio long reads, and com-
parative transcriptomics analysis from RNA-seq: (2)
Evolution of sex chromosomes, in the Pannell and Per-
rin labs: assembly and polymorphism analysis of sex
chromosomes from plants and amphibians.
The postdoc would be expected to take a leading posi-
tion on the bioinformatics of the genomics of non-model
organisms, and to participate actively in evolutionary
analyses and interpretation. The postdoc will work
closely with other bioinformaticians and evolutionary
genomicists on both projects. In the medium term,
the postdoc will be expected to develop his or her own
subproject and publications.
The position will be in co-supervision between Profs
Marc Robinson-Rechavi, John Pannell and Nicolas Per-
rin, all three in the Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tion. Prof Robinson-Rechavi is also a group leader at the
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, and the postdoc will
also be a full member of the SIB. The starting contract
will be for 1 year, starting as soon as possible, renewable
for up to ve years; the postdoc will participate in some
undergraduate and/or masters teaching, in English or
in French.
The ideal candidate would have a doctorate degree in
bioinformatics, genomics, or a related eld; a good
command of Unix and another programming language;
hands-on experience with genomic data; and an interest
in pursuing research on non model organisms. Experi-
ence with the R language and cluster computing would
be benecial.
Full applications, which should include a cover letter, a
CV, and the contact information of 3 referees, shouldApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 99
be sent to marc.robinson-rechavi@unil.ch as a single
PDF document. Informal enquiries should be directed
to marc.robinson-rechavi@unil.ch; john.pannell@unil.ch;
and/or nicolas.perrin@unil.ch.
Deadline for applications: all applications received by
April 12, 2015, will be given full consideration, but the
position will remain open until the right candidate has
been appointed.
For background on the labs in which you would be
working, please see: Robinson-Rechavi lab: http:/-
/bioinfo.unil.ch/ Pannell lab: http://www.unil.ch/-
dee/home/menuinst/research/group-pannell.html Per-
rin lab: http://www.unil.ch/dee/home/menuinst/-
research/group-perrin.html
Pannell John Richard <John.Pannell@unil.ch >
UManchester
TraitVariationGenetics
We are recruiting a postdoctoral research associate to
work on the genetics of natural trait variation in a social
microbe. This is a 36 month position based in Prof
Chris Thompson's Lab at the University of Manchester.
The postdoc will work as part of a collaborative team
that includes researchers at the University of Bath and
the Federal University in Sao Carlos (Brazil). Further
details about the project and the position are included
below:
Explaining why so much natural genetic variation exists
in tness related traits is a fundamental problem in
evolutionary genetics. Many competing explanations
have been proposed, but cleanly distinguishing between
them experimentally has been challenging. For example,
we nd surprisingly high genetic variation in key tness
related social behaviour traits across a huge diversity of
taxa, despite a general expectation that variation will
be removed by selection. To understand the processes
shaping such variation we will employ a novel combina-
tion of approaches to dissect the genetics and evolution
of social and non-social traits using the social amoeba D.
discoideum (Dd). The Dd system provides a uniquely
powerful model to dissect the processes shaping genetic
diversity in a natural microbial population, while pro-
viding critical insights into how the genomes of more
complex species are shaped by evolution.
Specically, we will employ a powerful integration of
computational, genomic and experimental approaches:. high throughput phenotyping will be used to quantify
phenotypic variation in a range of social and non social
traits.
. whole genome sequencing will be used to identify genes
that show sequence variation associated with natural
diversity in social and non-social traits,
. you will experimentally validate the causal role of
natural genetic variants using cutting edge molecular
and gene replacement techniques,
. you will test whether the same genes aect both so-
cial and non-social traits, suggesting that they are con-
strained and their joint evolution is shaped by pleiotropy,
. using this data we will develop models to determine
the evolutionary processes that have shaped variation
in this system.
Together, these objectives will lead to fundamental ad-
vances in our understanding of the types of variation
underlying phenotypic diversity in natural populations
and the evolutionary processes shaping that variation.
The Thompson lab at the University of Manchester
has extensive experience in whole genome, molecu-
lar genetics and experimental evolution approaches in
Dictyostelium. For further information, see http://-
thethompsonlab.wordpress.com).
Professor Chris Thompson Email: Christo-
pher.thompson@manchester.ac.uk Telephone: 0161 275
1588
For further details and how to apply see:
https://www.jobs.manchester.ac.uk/-
displayjob.aspx?jobid11 Note that this position
is funded under the same project as previous advertised
positions at the University of Bath based in the lab of
Jason Wolf. For more information about these other
positions, please see:
Postdoc (36 months) using computational and em-
pirical approaches to understand natural varia-
tion in social and non-social traits: https://-
www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?idX06 Technician
(at least 24 months), who will contribute to all as-
pects of the project: https://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/-
Vacancy.aspx?idX54 (NOTE THAT THIS POSITION
LISTS A MAY START DATE, BUT LATER START
DATES ARE POSSIBLE)
jason@evolutionarygenetics.org100 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UMissouri
DinosaurCranialBiomechanics
Casey Holliday (hollidayca@missouri.edu) and I (mid-
dletonk@missouri.edu) have an opening for a three-year,
NSF-funded postdoc to study cranial biomechanics and
evolution in dinosaurs in collaboration with Larry Wit-
mer (Ohio University) and Julian Davis (University of
Southern Indiana). Details and application informa-
tion are below. Feel free to pass along to interested
researchers and direct any questions to Casey or me.
|-
Kevin Middleton, Ph.D. Department of Pathology &
Anatomical Sciences University of Missouri School of
Medicine http://web.missouri.edu/~middletonk |-
Position Details:
Project title: Evolution of Dinosaur Jaw Musculature
and the Origins of Avian Cranial Kinesis. Postdoctoral
Fellow, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO.
The Department of Pathology and Anatomical Sciences
at the University of Missouri School of Medicine invites
applications for a postdoctoral research associate. The
position is for one year and is renewable up to 3 years.
The successful applicant will work under the supervision
of Drs. Casey M. Holliday and Kevin M. Middleton on
a National Science Foundation-funded program in 3D
Cranial Biomechanics and Morphometrics. The posi-
tion is 80% Research and 20% Outreach (allocation is
negotiable) and oers a competitive salary plus benets.
Review of applications will begin March 1, 2015 and
remain open until lled with an anticipated start date
of August 1, 2015.
Responsibilities:
1) The candidate will work directly with PIs Holliday,
Middleton, Davis, and Witmer to develop and conduct
analyses of cranial biomechanics and morphometrics of
fossil and extant dinosaur species.
2) The candidate will help develop 3D anatomical and
biomechanical visualizations and mobilize these data to
appropriate online databases and outreach locations.
3) The candidate will present ndings in collaboration
with project leaders and associated students. The can-
didate will develop and participate in the Inside Di-
nosaurs education and outreach program at University
of Missouri. Funds for research expenses and travel areavailable.
Qualications:
By the start date, all elements of the PhD, including
the dissertation, must be completed and the degree con-
ferred in biological, earth sciences, engineering or similar
eld, with an emphasis on vertebrate biomechanics and
paleobiology.
Additional qualications include demonstrated experi-
ence in one or more of the following: 3D computational
biology, Morphometric analysis, and/or 3D anatomical
visualization such as experience working with CT image
data and with 3D model rendering software (Amira,
Maya), MATLAB, and R; demonstrated experience
managing personnel and leading research projects; and
demonstrated ability to publish in English- language
peer-reviewed journals.
Preference will be given to individuals with interests in
morphology-based research and whose interests comple-
ment those of current faculty in the Integrative Anatomy
group (http://anatomy.missouri.edu) will be given prior-
ity. The Integrative Anatomy Group provides a collegial
environment with substantial opportunities for intellec-
tual creativity and diverse research.
Application Materials:
To apply please submit (1) cover letter including con-
tact information for three references; (2) curriculum
vitae; and (3) a research statement including previous
experience and future plans
University of Missouri web site is hrs.missouri.edu/nd-
a-job/academic/. At the top of the webpage, select
prospective employees and search for pathology to reach
the link for the position. The Job ID number is 15786.
middletonk@health.missouri.edu
UMontana EvolutionaryGenomics
SexualSelection
Postdoc:EvolutionaryGenomicsSexualSelection University ofMontana
Post-doctoral RESEARCH FELLOW: EvolutionaryGe-
nomicsSexualSelection The University of Montana, to
study the genetic basis for rapid weapon evolution in
rhinoceros beetles
Application deadline: 31 March 2015 Start date: be-
tween May and June 2015
Doug Emlen at the University of Montana, Missoula,April 1, 2015 EvolDir 101
in collaboration with Laura Corley Lavine, Washing-
ton State University, is seeking an Evolutionary Biol-
ogist with programming/bioinformatics/genomics ex-
perience to explore the evolution of extreme weapons
in rhinoceros beetles. This project focuses on popula-
tions of rhinoceros beetle that dier dramatically in the
relative size of a weapon, a pitchfork horn projecting
from the heads of males. The successful candidate will
join our international collaborative team to help sam-
ple animals from populations across Asia, prepare and
sequence whole genomic DNA from these samples using
RAD-seq, and use divergence mapping approaches to
screen for evidence of recent selection. In addition, the
candidate will use RAD-seq to conduct a QTL analysis
on F2 animals produced from a cross between a long-
and a short-horned population. Proposed genetic stud-
ies build on a decade of prior research by the PIs and
their collaborators on the developmental mechanisms
regulating horn growth in this species, which have iden-
tied a rich suite of candidate developmental genes and
pathways.
The successful candidate will join a vibrant and produc-
tive department with a thriving evolutionary genetics
group (http://cas.umt.edu/dbs/default.php), and will
be expected to maintain consistently high research out-
put in the form of quality publications, supervise and
train students, contribute generally to research activi-
ties of the group, and participate in appropriate career
development activities. The position is for two years
subject to satisfactory annual progress.
Requirements: - A PhD in evolutionary genetics, popu-
lation genetics, or genomics, with extensive experience
in next-generation sequencing, preferably RAD-seq - A
publication track record in high-quality journals that
clearly reects the ability to conduct and publish re-
search in the eld of evolutionary genetics - Demon-
strated evidence of a strong interest in applying state-of-
the art molecular methods to current evolutionary ques-
tions with meticulous attention to detail and high quality
lab work - Strong quantitative/programming skills are
highly advantageous - Ability to work independently in
a collaborative research team - Experience in or enthu-
siasm for supervision and training of students - Ability
to communicate eectively with other scientists at the
interface of lab and eld ecology
Send a letter that addresses these requirements and in-
cludes a brief statement about why you are interested in
this post-doc plus a full academic CV that includes the
names and contact details (email, phone) of 3 references,
to Doug Emlen (doug.emlen@mso.umt.edu). Review
of applications will begin on 31 March 2015, and will
continue until the position is lled.Doug Emlen <doug.emlen@mso.umt.edu >
\Emlen, Doug" <doug.emlen@mso.umt.edu >
UNamur Belgium Bioinformatics
*Postdoctoral bioinformatician in Evolutionary ge-
nomics, UNamur, BE*
A 3-year postdoctoral bioinformatician position is avail-
able to work on the genome evolution of bdelloid rotifers
within the group of Prof. Karine Van Doninck (Lab-
oratory of Evolutionary Genetics and Ecology) at the
University of Namur (Belgium). The postdoctoral re-
searcher will work on two projects, funded by ARC and
FNRS-MIS, with as main objective to investigate the-
origin and causesof the genomic peculiarities found in
the bdelloid rotifer /A. vaga/.
Using next-generation sequencing (NGS) we previously
characterized the degenerate tetraploidgenome struc-
ture of the bdelloid rotifer /Adineta vaga/ with massive
genomic rearrangements involvingmost of the longest
scaolds. As a consequence, no homologous pair of
chromosomes could be identied within this genome
providing the rst genomic hallmark of ameiotic evo-
lution within this bdelloid rotifer clade. Another pe-
culiarity observed in the genome of /A. vaga /is the
high percentage of genes (8%) of non-metazoan ori-
gin and probably//acquired through horizontal gene
transfer (HGT) (see Flot et al Nature 2013). These
features could be//conferred by their long-term amei-
otic evolution.//Nonetheless, the unusual//lifestyle of
many bdelloid rotifers, involving repeated cycles of des-
iccation//and the associated DNA DSBs (see Hespeels
et al JEB 2014), may also contribute to genome struc-
ture//evolution.//In order to determine the origin and
causes of these genomic//peculiarities we are starting
a comparative analysis of//genomes of dierent bdel-
loid species that diverged a long time ago,//including
lineages that have lost the ability to withstand desic-
cation, and of an /A. vaga/ clone submitted to several
rounds of desiccation. The postdoc will conduct bioin-
formatic analyses of genomic (and transcriptomic) data
generated by the team. The current team of researchers
working on bdelloid rotifers within the 2 projects include
3 Principal Investigators (Prof. K. Van Doninck and
Dr. F. Chainiaux from UNamur and Prof. B. Hallet
from UCL), 2 postdoctoral researchers, 3 PhD students,
2 Master students and 2 technicians.//102 EvolDir April 1, 2015
*Contacts:*
Prof. Karine Van Doninck,
karine.vandoninck@unamur.be
University of Namur, Laboartory of Evolutionary Ge-
netics and Ecology
http://www.lege-unamur.be *Application://*
Applicants should have a PhD in a relevant area. Pri-
ority will be given to candidates with a proven track
record (with several publications as a rst author) who
will express their motivation to the project.
The position is for 3 years starting latest on the *1 ^st of
July 2015. *The closing date for applications is *5 ^th
of May, 2015. *Interested applicants should send a
cover letter (briey describing research experience, in-
terests, and career goal), curriculum vitae (with list of
publications), and the names of three references (includ-
ing address, phone number and Email) to Karine VAN
DONINCK (karine.vandoninck@unamur.be)**
{
Karine VAN DONINCK Full Professor Department of
Biology
T. +32 (0)81 724 407 F. +32 (0)81 724
362 karine.vandoninck@unamur.be http://-
perso.fundp.ac.be/ ~kvandoni/ Universit e de Namur
ASBL Rue de Bruxelles 61 - 5000 Namur Belgique
Let's respect the environment together. Only print this
message if necessary!
Karine Van Doninck <karine.vandoninck@fundp.ac.be >
UNewEngland Australia
PlantSpeciationGenomics
We've extended our postdoc position to the 30th of
March (see below). The HR server has been preventing
submissions for several days and I haven't had a clear an-
swer on when they'll have it xed, so please let me know
if you've been aected or if you have any other questions
about the position. Rose rose.andrew@une.edu.au
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (Plant Speciation Ge-
nomics)
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher to ll an ARC Discovery-funded postdoctoral
position. The project will involve whole-genome shotgun
sequencing of many individuals across 10 woodland Eu-calyptus species. This widespread genus of Australian
trees includes several hybridising species that co-occur
in woodlands across large portions of Eastern Australia,
oering an unusual degree of replication for studying
comparative landscape genomics and the role of inter-
specic gene ow in local adaptation. A second aim
of the project is landscape genomic association stud-
ies on thousands of trees to identify environmentally
adaptive loci. A third aim will be to validate adaptive
loci segregating in hybrid progeny by growing seedlings
in climate chambers phenotyping stress response with
plant phenomics.
To be considered for this position applicants must have
a PhD in Evolutionary Genetics, Genomics or a related
area, with an excellent research record relative to oppor-
tunity, including articles in high quality, peer-reviewed
journals. In addition the successful applicant will have
research experience in population genomics, admixture
analysis and/or landscape genomics.
This is a full-time xed-term position available for 2
years, with the possibility of further appointment, sub-
ject to the availability of funding. The successful can-
didate will be expected to participate actively in the
School and to interact with undergraduate and postgrad-
uate students in the research group. The research fellow
will join Dr Rose Andrew's research group at UNE,
which conducts genome-enabled research on adaptation
and speciation in a range of organisms (e.g. orchids,
sunowers, feral cats). This project is a collaboration
with Professor Justin Borevitz at the Australian Na-
tional University, who specialises in plant genomics for
climate adaptation and high-throughput phenotyping.
Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Rose
Andrew, phone: +61 2 6773 3160 or email
rose.andrew@une.edu.au. To nd out more about the
school visit: https://www.une.edu.au/about-une/-
academic-schools/school-of-environmental-and-rural-
science About UNE and Armidale: The University of
New England, as Australia's oldest regional university,
has a long history of excellence in research across many
major elds of study, including Ecology and Botany.
The School of Environmental and Rural Science is home
to the N.C.W. Beadle Herbarium and has strengths in
animal and plant genetics, and evolutionary biology.
Armidale a vibrant university city recognized as
a centre fo culture, is well served with art, music,
theatre, sport and public and private education. To
explore our region visit: www.armidaleregion.com.au/
and/or www.experiencethehighs.com.au/ * 2 years
xed-term, full-time, with possible extension subject
to funding availability * $75,717 Salary to $81,196
Salary per annum (Level A) * Plus up to 17% employer
superannuation contribution. Optional salary packagingApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 103
is available.
*****New Closing Date: 9am on the 30th March
(AEDT)******** Reference No: 215020 Applicants
must provide a response to each of the selection criteria
contained in the position statement at www.une.edu.au/-
jobs-at-une, where applications are also to be lodged.
Equity principles underpin all UNE policies and proce-
dures.
Dr Rose Andrew Lecturer in Molecular Ecology School of
Environmental and Rural Science University of New Eng-
land Armidale, NSW,2351 AUSTRALIA Ph: +61 2 6773
3160 rose.andrew@une.edu.au http://www.une.edu.au/-
sta-proles/randre20 https://sites.google.com/site/-
roseandrewresearch/ randre20@une.edu.au
UNewHampshire BeeSociogenomics
The laboratory of Dr. Sandra Rehan is seek-
ing a Postdoctoral Scholar. This 36-month posi-
tion is in collaboration with the lab of Dr. Amy
Toth at Iowa State University (amytoth@iastate.edu;
http://www.public.iastate.edu/ ~amytoth/Toth lab/-
Home.html), a PhD position is available at Iowa State
University, and funded by the NSF-IOS Animal Be-
havior Program. The Postdoctoral Scholar position at
the University of New Hampshire involves comparative
genomics and transcriptomics to understand the molec-
ular basis of sociality in bees. We are seeking expertise
in bioinformatics, especially comparative genomics and
molecular evolution of social insects. Possibilities for
both eldwork and molecular biology exist. Candidates
should demonstrate a track record of publication; have
strong organizational, written, and oral communica-
tion skills; and be able to work both independently
and as part of a collaborative team. For further infor-
mation, please feel free to contact Dr. Rehan ( san-
dra.rehan@unh.edu; www.unhbeelab.com). Interested
applicants should email a curriculum vitae, a 1-2 page
statement of research interests that explicitly describes
professional qualications for this position, and contact
information for three referees. Review of applications
will begin April 1st 2015, and continue until a suitable
candidate is found.
Sandra Rehan, Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences University of New Hampshire 191 Rud-
man Hall, 46 College Road Durham, NH, USA 03824 mo-
bile phone: (267) 650-2528 oce phone: (603) 862-5310
oce fax: (603) 862-3784 email: sandra.rehan@unh.eduwebsite: www.unhbeelab.com sandra.rehan@gmail.com
UNotreDame MalariaComputBiol
Computational Biology of Pathogen Drug Resistance
Evolution
The Ferdig lab (http://www3.nd.edu/ ~ferdilab/), in
The Eck Institute for Global Health and the Department
of Biological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame,
is seeking a computational biologist with interest in
network-based inference and large-scale data integration.
The fellow will work both independently and as part of
a collaborative team using whole-genome approaches to
study drug targets and drug resistance evolution in the
malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum.
A range of available projects includes: (1) Characteriza-
tion and mining of transcript and regulatory networks
of drug resistant parasites; (2) Systems genetics, using
segregating parasite populations and mutant parasite
libraries along with genome-scale data to connect geno-
types to phenotypes; and (3) Integration of newly gener-
ated and existing public data to nd drug targets, map
chemical/cellular space not currently exploited by drugs
and to predict eective drug combinations.
To align with these projects, the candidate should have
a strong working knowledge of cellular mechanisms and
biological pathways along with interest/expertise in one
or more of the following:
- Regulation of gene expression; network analytical meth-
ods and data mining; accessing and integrating data
resources; evolutionary genomics - Mining of biologi-
cal information, including transcript data from both
microarrays and RNAseq; machine learning; skills in
scripting languages such as Python, Perl, Matlab, or R.
The position is designed to ensure a strong train-
ing trajectory for a computational scientist aspir-
ing to an independent research career. This in-
cludes a rich opportunity to interface with other quan-
titative/computational/evolutionary biologists across
campus, including the Interdisciplinary Center for
Network Science Applications (iCeNSA, http://-
www.icensa.com/), along with collaborators at other
institutions. Salary will be at standard levels per NIH
and institutional guidelines.
Submit a current C.V. and names of 3 references to
Dr. Michael Ferdig, Professor, Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences, University of Notre Dame, IN 46556-0369,104 EvolDir April 1, 2015
ferdig.1@nd.edu (574) 631-9973.
The Eck Institute for Global Health (EIGH, https://-
globalhealth.nd.edu/) is a university-wide institution
that recognizes health as a fundamental human right
and endeavors to promote research, training, and service
to advance health standards for all people, especially
people in low- and middle-income countries who are
disproportionately impacted by preventable diseases.
The University of Notre Dame is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and minor-
ity candidates are encouraged to apply.
mferdig@nd.edu
UOregon
BioinformaticsHostMicrobe
University of Oregon Posting 15063 Position Announce-
ment
Post-doctoral Research Scholar: Bioinformatics of Host-
Microbe Systems Microbial Ecology and Theory of Ani-
mals Center for Systems Biology
We are seeking a postdoctoral research scholar with
signicant expertise in bioinformatics and research in-
terests at the intersection of mathematics, biology and
computer science to join the Microbial Ecology The-
ory in Animals (META) Center at the University of
Oregon (meta.uoregon.edu). The META Center is an
NIH-funded Center of Excellence in Systems Biology,
focused on the development and application of biologi-
cal theory, integrated with empirical studies, to better
understand host-microbe systems. Every multicellular
organism is associated with a diverse array of microbes,
and although it has become evident that these microbes
contribute signicantly to their hosts V and that hosts
inuence their microbiota - the biological mechanisms
underlying these interactions are still unclear. The
META Center aims to generate fundamental new knowl-
edge regarding these interactions by integrating concepts
from genomics, developmental biology, ecology and evo-
lution, and by developing new approaches for imaging,
mathematical modeling, systems and functional biology,
and analysis of next generation sequence data.
The ideal candidates will have a demonstrated record of
past scholarly success and experience in developing and
applying computational methods in the analysis of com-
plex data sets, especially those that address problems
that are computationally challenging and data intensive.Preference will be given to candidates who can work
independently as well as a member of a research team.
Optimal candidates will be willing to work in a highly
interactive group of researchers spanning a wide range
of disciplines, and be eager to challenge themselves by
working in novel areas bridging mathematics, biology
and computer science. A strong interest in address-
ing fundamental questions about host-microbe systems
using insights from ecological and evolutionary theory
is especially desirable. This position also provides an
opportunity to develop innovative curriculum for under-
graduate and graduate level courses in bioinformatics.
The successful candidate will support and enhance a
diverse learning and working environment.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. from a relevant discipline,
such as physics, mathematics, statistics, computer sci-
ence, ecology, evolution, systems biology, microbiology,
genomics or a related eld. The positions are initially
for a 1 year term with the possibility for renewal contin-
gent upon satisfactory performance. The start date is
exible, but preference will be given to applicants who
can begin before June, 2015. Please email questions
regarding these positions, the META Center, or its sci-
entic mission to any of the META Center scientists
listed below:
Karen Guillemin (kguillem@uoregon.edu) William
Cresko (wcresko@uoregon.edu) John Conery (con-
ery@uoregon.edu)
To apply, please include as a single attachment: (1) a
brief cover letter explaining your background and career
interests (2) CV (including publications), (3) names and
contact information for three references.
Submit materials to ie2jobs@uoregon.edu. Subject:
META Posting 15063 To ensure consideration, please
submit applications by April 2, 2015. This position will
remain open until lled.
Women and members of groups underrepresented in
science are encouraged to apply. We invite applica-
tions from qualied candidates who share our com-
mitment to diversity. The University of Oregon is an
EO/AA/Veterans/Disability institution committed to
cultural diversity.
http://jobs.uoregon.edu/unclassied.php?id=5039 {
INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA insti-
tution committed to cultural diversity. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
ie2jobs@uoregon.eduApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 105
UOregon MicrobialEcology
Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Research Scholar in Bioinformat-
ics/Microbial Ecology Institute of Ecology and
Evolution Posting: 15074
Jessica Green (http://biology.uoregon.edu/people/-
green/) is currently seeking a bioinformatics postdoc-
toral research scholar to explore fundamental questions
in microbial ecology and evolution. Applicants must
have a Ph.D. with extensive training using bioinfor-
matics to understand the ecology and/or evolution of
complex biological systems, and strong writing skills.
The ideal candidate will have experience with statisti-
cal analysis, next-gen sequence data analysis,software
development, and/or experience with combining and
analyzing complex datasets from multiple sources and
technologies. The successful candidate will have the abil-
ity to work eectively with faculty, sta and students
from a variety of diverse backgrounds.
The successful candidate will have the opportunity to
creatively and independently engage in research at the
Biology and Built Environment (BioBE) Center (http:/-
/biobe.uoregon.edu/), funded by the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation. The BioBE Center is training a new gen-
eration of innovators to study the built environment
microbiome - the diversity of microorganisms interact-
ing with each other and with the indoor environment.
The vision of this national research center is to under-
stand buildings as complex ecosystems and to explore
how architectural design mediates urban microbial ecol-
ogy and evolution. For a description of partner projects
see http://www.microbe.net/ . The position is available
for 1 year with the possibility for renewal depending on
performance. The start date is exible. Please email
questions regarding the position to Jessica Green (jl-
green@uoregon.edu).
To apply
A complete application will consist of the following ma-
terials in a single attachment:
(1) a brief cover letter explaining your background and
career interests
(2) CV (including publications),
(3) names and contact information for three references.
Submit materials to ie2jobs@uoregon.edu. Subject:BioBE Posting 15074
To ensure consideration, please submit applications by
April 2, 2015. This position will remain open until lled.
The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action institution committed to cultural di-
versity and compliance with the ADA. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
{ INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA insti-
tution committed to cultural diversity. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu
UOregon MicrobialEcologyEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Scholar - Microbial Ecology and
Evolution Posting 15060 Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution Brendan Bohannan at the University of Oregon
(http://pages.uoregon.edu/bohannanlab/) is currently
seeking a postdoctoral research scholar to explore fun-
damental questions in microbial ecology and evolution.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a biological, computa-
tional, or mathematical eld and strong writing skills.
Experience developing and applying theory and and/or
modeling to microbial systems is highly desirable.
The successful candidate will support and enhance the
university's and the institute's commitment to diversity
and be a key member of the META Center for Systems
Biology (http://meta.uoregon.edu). The Microbial Ecol-
ogy and Theory of Animals (META) Center for Systems
Biology is devoted to understanding how host-microbe
systems function and how this knowledge can be used
to advance human health. The successful candidate will
interact closely with other META Center members, as
well as take a leadership role in the Bohannan Research
Group. We are especially interested in candidates who
have a strong desire to ask fundamental ecological and
evolutionary questions of host-associated microbial com-
munities. Women and minorities encouraged to apply.
We invite applications from qualied candidates who
share our commitment to diversity. The position is
available for 1 year with the possibility of renewal con-106 EvolDir April 1, 2015
ditional on performance and funding. The start date
is exible. Please email questions regarding the posi-
tion to Brendan Bohannan (bohannan@uoregon.edu).
To apply A complete application will consist of the
following materials in a single attachment: (1) a brief
cover letter explaining your background and career in-
terests (2) CV (including publications) (3) names and
contact information for three references Submit mate-
rials to ie2jobs@uoregon.edu. Subject: Posting 15060
To ensure consideration, please submit applications by
April 2, 2015. This position will remain open until
lled. Position subject to criminal background check.
EO/AA/Veterans/Disability institution committed to
cultural diversity.
http://jobs.uoregon.edu/unclassied.php?id=5037 {
INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA insti-
tution committed to cultural diversity. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu
UOslo 3yr AvianHybridization
3-year research position in Evolutionary Genetics at Cen-
tre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES),
University of Oslo (UiO)
The project is part of a larger research program entitled
\On the role of hybridisation in evolution-the case of
Eurasian Passer Sparrows " funded by the Norwegian
Research Council.
Hybridization can have dierent evolutionary outcomes,
ranging from speciation reversals to hybrid speciation.
The Italian sparrow (Passer italiae) is the rst docu-
mented case of hybrid speciation in birds (Hermansen et
al. 2011). This bird originated from past events of hy-
bridization between two divergent parental species, the
house sparrow (P. domesticus) and the Spanish sparrow
(P. hispaniolensis) some thousands of years ago. Today,
the hybrid taxon is sympatric or parapatric with both
parent species in certain regions, enabling investigations
of current gene ow and the nature of reproductive bar-
riers. Moreover, the parent species live sympatrically in
large regions around the Mediterranean Sea, enabling
comparisons of the reproductive barriers that isolate the
parent species with those that isolate the hybrid speciesfrom either parent.
The project integrates evolutionary genetic, genomic,
quantitative genetic and ecological approaches to inves-
tigate the consequences of hybridization in the interplay
with recombination and selection. Phenotypes of in-
terest include beak morphology, plumage coloration,
vocalization, migration behaviour and intrinsic repro-
ductive barriers (genetic incompatibilities). Of genomic
resources we have de novo assembled the house spar-
row genome, which will be used as a reference for re-
sequencing and genotyping eorts in this project. We
aim at increasing our understanding of the modularity
of the genome and of the processes of adaptation and
speciation. The successful candidate will be allowed to
choose aspects of the larger program as best ts her/his
skills and research interests. She/he will also be encour-
aged to develop additional, complementary avenues of
research.
The candidate must have a PhD or other correspond-
ing education in a relevant eld, such as evolutionary
biology, genomics, genetics and/or bioinformatics. Doc-
umented skills in population genetic/genomic and/or
quantitative genetic analysis will be emphasized.
The research will be conducted in close collaboration
with Prof. S ~Atre and his group at CEES. The research
team will also include other scientists from Norway, Swe-
den and Finland. The working language will be English.
Fieldwork may be conducted at a variety of locations,
including Italy and other Mediterranean countries.
The application must include: Application letter, CV,
copies of educational certicates, transcript of records,
A complete list of publications and up to 5 academic
works, Names and contact details of 2-3 references.
Apply online within 24th March via Easyre-
cruit: http://uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/1351119/-
96871?iso=no Contact: Glenn-Peter S ~Atre, e-mail:
g.p.satre@ibv.uio.no
Anna Runemark <anna.runemark@ibv.uio.no >
UOtago
EvolutionaryGeneticsZosterops
Postdoctoral Fellow - Zoology (1500512)
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF
OTAGO DUNEDIN NEW ZEALAND
Applications are invited for the 3-year, xed-term posi-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 107
tion of Postdoctoral Fellow. The successful candidate
will be working on a Marsden-funded research project
titled \Are genetic shifts in dispersal ability key to re-
solving the "paradox of the great speciators\?" and will
involve conducting genetic research on the South Pacic
Zosterops white-eyes.
The \paradox of the great speciators" has puzzled evo-
lutionary biologists for over half a century. A great
speciator requires excellent dispersal ability to explain
wide distributions, but reduced dispersal ability to ex-
plain high numbers of divergent, isolated forms. Rapidly
changing dispersal abilities are assumed, but identifying
a mechanism has proved elusive. This project takes a
novel approach by examining genetic changes at \migra-
tion" genes in a great speciator (the Zosterops white-
eyes). These genes were recently shown to switch mi-
grants into year-round residents in other species. These
genetic switches may simultaneously aect dispersal
and behavioural characteristics within populations and
individuals leading to dierentiation of populations, po-
tentially leading to speciation. The white-eyes of the
south Pacic are an ideal study system as repeated
island colonisation and divergence has occurred over
a range of timescales, from hundreds to hundreds of
thousands of years. They also display varying dispersal
ability along the continuum from migratory to resident,
with some populations containing both migrating and
non-migrating individuals, allowing us to examine the
genetic switches at the level of the population and indi-
vidual. The study will be the rst to address the role
that evolutionary shifts in genes associated with disper-
sal ability play in speciation and provide a resolution
to an enduring paradox.
A PhD and research experience in evolutionary genetics
is essential. Experience in analysis of candidate genes
associated with migration or animal personality would
be an advantage, as would experience with catching,
handling and blood sampling small passerine birds.
The appointment is expected to start within the follow-
ing period: July 2015 to October 2015.
The project is funded by a Marsden grant to Dr
Bruce Robertson (University of Otago, http://-
www.otago.ac.nz/zoology/sta/otago008933.html)
and Dr Sonya Clegg (University of Oxford, http:/-
/www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/members/dr-sonya-clegg/)
(Principal Investigators) in collaboration with Prof
Ian Owens (Natural History Museum, London,
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/departments-and-
sta/sta-directory/ian-owens.html).
Specic enquiries may be directed to Dr Bruce Robert-
son, bruce.robertson@otago.ac.nzApplications quoting reference number 1500512 will
close on Tuesday, 31 March 2015.
Further details and applications: https://-
otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=-
en&job=1500512 sonya.clegg@zoo.ox.ac.uk
UOtago NZ
GenomicsComplexCognition
Postdoctoral Opportunity
Fixed term, One year
Genomic Investigation of Complex Cognition
We are currently seeking an outstanding Postdoctoral
with experience in genomics and to conduct research
into the genetic basis of complex cognition in New Cale-
donian crows.
Project Description: The discovery of complex avian
cognitive abilities has revolutionized our understanding
of the evolution of intelligence. However, the genetic
basis of these abilities is unknown. One possibility is
that numerous changes in genes across a wide range
of functional domains are required for the evolution
of complex intelligence. Alternatively, only a limited
number of genetic tweaks might be required. We seek a
postdoctoral fellow to undertake genomic comparisons
between the tool manufacturing New Caledonian crow
and closely related non-tool-using crows to search for
genes that underpin a tool-using lifestyle.
The project emerges from a Marsden Grant headed by
Dr Gavin Hunt (Auckland) in collaboration with Profs
Neil Gemmell (Otago) and Russell Gray (Max Planck
Institute for History and the Sciences, Jena; Auckland).
The position will be based in the Gemmell laboratory
at the University of Otago.
The Ideal Candidate: The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics/genomics, evolution-
ary biology and bioinformatics. Knowledge of NGS
approaches and analyses is essential, while past work in
comparative genomics and an interest in neurobiology
and cognition may be helpful. The successful candidate
will be motivated and organised, with a demonstrated
capacity to master the broad skill set necessary for the
successful completion of a research project.
Minimum qualications: PhD in Genetics, Genomics,
Molecular Biology or equivalent.108 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Eligibility: The position is open to all nationalities.
Salary Level and Range: Postdoctoral Fellow ($72,046),
Fixed term until 2016
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering
letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Applications close on the 28th March and it would be
desirable if the successful applicant were able to start
by mid 2015.
Professor Neil J. Gemmell Head of Department Depart-
ment of Anatomy University of Otago, PO Box 913
Dunedin 9054 New Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 6824 Fax: +64 3 479 7254
e-mail: neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz Web: http:/-
/gemmell-lab.otago.ac.nz/ Allan Wilson Centre
for Molecular Ecology and Evolution: http:/-
/www.allanwilsoncentre.ac.nz/ Gravida - Na-
tional Centre for Growth and Development:
http://www.gravida.org.nz/ Neil Gemmell
<neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz >
UOulu
PopulationStatisticalGenomics
Post doc in population and statistical genomics at the
University of Oulu
Post doctoral position for two years available in the
Population and statistical genomics (PSG) research
team http://www.oulu./popstatgen at the University
of Oulu, in the Genetics and Physiology unit.
The team consists of ve dierent research groups, deal-
ing with genomics of adaptation of plant populations
(Outi.Savolainen at oulu.), with conservation genetics
of especially large carnivores (Jouni.Aspi at oulu.), of
statistical genomics, especially variable selection meth-
ods (Mikko.Sillanpaa at oulu.), systematics and evo-
lutionary genetics of Lepidoptera and of social insects
(Marko.Mutanen at oulu.) and human cancer func-
tional genomics (Gonghong.Wei at oulu.).
The post doc will be associated with one of these groupsto conduct research on topics studied in the group. Some
10-20 % of the time will be allocated to shared interests
of the whole team. We seek a highly motivated Ph.D.
with interest in the topics represented by the groups,
expertise in population genomics and bioinformatics and
international experience. The position will be based on
the Linnanmaa campus, where all groups except for the
cancer biology group are based. Applications should
include a letter describing your interest, your CV and
list of publications, and names of three possible persons
to ask for letters of reference. All the materials should
be submitted as one single pdf to kirjaamo@oulu., by
March 23rd, 2015.
For the ocial announcement, please see
https://www.saimanet.com/certiahome/-
open jobview.html?did=5600&jc=1&id=-
0000863&lang=en . For information, please be
in touch with Outi.Savolainen@oulu. and/or the other
PIs.
Outi Savolainen <Outi.Savolainen@oulu. >
UPernambuco Brazil
EvolutionaryBiol
Dear EvolDir members
The PPGBA - Graduate Program in Animal Biology ,
Zoology Department, Universidade Federal de Pernam-
buco, Northeastern Brazilian coast - will be selecting 1
PostDoc Fellow (PNPD Capes) to develop scientic and
educational activities within the PPGBA . The scholar-
ship will be valid for 12 to 60 months . The scholarship
amount is R$3,800.00 (around USD 1,500.00) monthly.
Note that FACEPE - Foundation for Science and Tech-
nology of the State of Pernambuco - can supplement
the scholarship in R$ 1,200.00 (USD 600.00) . Can-
didates should express their interest to participate in
the selection by presenting a work plan, stating the re-
search project and discipline plan with simplied menu
to be oered in PPGBA UNTIL 03/25/2015. It is still
oered to the selected candidate the possibility of co-
supervision of Master's Dissertation and/or Doctorate
Thesis in the area of the Supervisor.
Thus, the Laboratory of Evolutiona ry and Environ-
mental Genomics, led by Dr. Rodrigo A. Torres
(lagea.com.br) has full interest for hosting an associate
researcher with remarkable scientic production. It is
preferred but not mandatory applications for Brazilians.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 109
It is oered excellent working infrastructure in the areas
of Conservation Genetics, Molecular Systematics, and
Conservation of species and ecosystems through analysis
of genome damaging. Additionally, our team is now com-
posed of one PostDoc, four PhD students, three MSc.
students, and undergraduate students. Our lab expects
candidates with at least 5 papers accepted/published at
the qualis B1 or higher in the area of BIODIVERSITY-
CAPES . For details see the WebQualis ( http://-
qualis.capes.gov.br/ webqualis/publico/ pesquisaPub-
licaClassicacao.se am?conversationPropagation3
4g in
)
More information by email rodrigotorres@ufpe.br .
Sincerely yours,
Rodrigo A. Torres, D. Sc. - CNPq PQ 2 Laboratory of
Evolutionary and Environmental Genomics Department
of Zoology, UFPE
rodrigotorres@ufpe.br
UPittsburgh
Plant-PollinatorInteractions
Postdoc in Plant-Pollinator Interactions at the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh
A Postdoctoral fellow position exploring plant-pollinator
interactions in diverse owering plant communities is
available in the laboratory of Tia-Lynn Ashman, De-
partment of Biological Sciences at the University of
Pittsburgh. Field work will be conducted in the Serpen-
tine seeps of Napa County, California.
Using replicated California wildower communities, the
work will link plant traits with the pattern and costs of
heterospecic pollen transfer, and characterize the mod-
iers of both pre- and post-pollination interactions at a
community-wide scale. The work will specically test
the idea that within a co-owering community tolerance
and avoidance of heterospecic pollen receipt are alter-
nate strategies for coexistence, and that tolerance is a
stabilizing force that depresses the risks of reproductive
failure of rare or facilitated species (e.g., Ashman and
Arceo-Gomez 2013 AJB 100:1061-1070; Arceo-Gomez
and Ashman 2011 New Phytologist 192: 738-746).
Responsibilities include characterizing plant-pollinator
interactions in the eld; greenhouse experiments to
assess tness costs of plant-plant interactions on the
style, collection of reproductive trait, pollinator, andpollen identity data; phylogenetically-controlled and
community-level statistical analyses and preparation of
manuscripts for publication. There is also the ample
opportunity to design and implement additional polli-
nation projects of mutual interest.
The postdoc position is for two years, renewable up
to two additional years. Start date is negotiable, but
Summer 2015 is preferred.
TO APPLY: Please send a CV and a description of your
experience and interests as relevant to the position to
tia1@pitt.edu, along with the names and contact infor-
mation for three referees. In a covering letter clearly
highlight skills and experience related to key responsi-
bilities. Informal enquiries are also welcome! Deadline
for application materials is April 1, 2015.
Dr. Tia-Lynn Ashman Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA
15260-3929 412-624-0984 http://www.pitt.edu/ ~tia1/
tia1@pitt.edu
USDA ARS Gainesville
PopulationGenomics
Two postdoctoral research positions in population ge-
nomics are available in the laboratory of DeWayne
Shoemaker, Agricultural Research Service, Gainesville,
Florida.
Our current research program largely focuses on func-
tional, population and evolutionary genomics studies
of re ants (genus Solenopsis). Examples of current
projects include the use of population genetic and ge-
nomic tools and approaches to understand the genetic
underpinnings of re ant social behavior, the patterns of
genome-wide gene ow and introgression among re ant
species, the genetic architecture of species dierences,
the consequences of recent invasions of re ants into new
environments and reproductive biology and life history
of re ants and other ants.
We are looking for someone to join us on a project
that uses NGS methods (particularly genotyping-by-
sequencing) to investigate population structure, gene
ow, introgression, and species delimitation in re ants.
Successful candidates will be encouraged to work on
additional projects, depending on personal interests
and demonstrated abilities. The lab is located within
the Fire Ant Research Unit at the Center for Medical,
Agricultural and Veterinary Entomology in Gainesville,110 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Florida and maintains close interactions with labs that
work on insect genetics at the University of Florida. Ini-
tial appointments are for one year with the possibility of
extension based on performance and available funding.
Desired qualications: Ph.D. in genetics, evolutionary
genomics or related eld, interest and expertise in popu-
lation and evolutionary genomics, bioinformatics experi-
ence of managing and analyzing large-scale genomic data
sets, programming experience in any scripting language
(e.g. PERL or Python), and evidence of excellence in
research and high productivity.
To apply, please send a brief description of research
interests (1-2 pages), a CV, and contact information for
three references to dewayne.shoemaker@ars.usda.gov.
Start date is exible and can be immediate. Positions
are open until lled.
\Shoemaker, Dewayne" <Dewayne.Shoemaker@ARS.USDA.GOV >
USheeld PlantPopGenomics
A three-year postdoc funded by the ERC is avail-
able at the University of Sheeld (United King-
dom), in the department of Animal and Plant
Sciences. The postdoc will work with Pascal-
Antoine Christin (http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/sta-and-
students/acadsta/christin), in collaboration with Pa-
trik Nosil (http://nosil-lab.group.shef.ac.uk/) and Colin
Osborne (http://osbornelab.group.shef.ac.uk/people/-
colin-osborne/).
* The project The goal of this project is to understand
the history of mutations and subsequent gene ow under
selection that led to the gradual emergence of novel phys-
iological pathways, using C4 photosynthesis as a study
system. Genome-wide data will be generated for grasses
of the genus Alloteropsis collected throughout Africa
and Asia and analysed in an ecological context coupled
with phenotyping (conducted in parallel by other group
members).
* What we require The postdoc will be responsible for col-
lecting the samples in the eld, generating the genome-
wide data, and leading hypothesis-driven analyses in
an evolutionary context. He will perform innovative
data analyses and disseminate the results of the project.
Applications are invited from candidates with interests
in populations genomics as a tool to address important
questions in evolutionary biology. A PhD is required, as
well as a demonstrated expertise in population genomics,
or bioinformatics. Field work experience is preferred.* What we oer A three-year contract is oered, which
might be renewed for two extra years. The successful
candidate will have the opportunity to conduct eldwork
in Africa, Asia and Oceania. The postdoc will integrate
in a dynamic team composed of multiple postdocs and
PhD students, and will collaborate with groups studying
evolution, genomics, ecology and physiology.
Preferred start date: 1st May 2015. The position
will remain open until a suitable candidate is found.
For inquiries, contact Pascal-Antoine Christin by email
(p.christin@sheeld.ac.uk) and include a CV and brief
(1-page) statement of research interests.
Further reading: Christin PA, et al. 2012. Adaptive
evolution of C4 photosynthesis through recurrent lateral
gene transfer. Current Biology 22: 445-449. Soria-
Carrasco V, et al. 2014. Stick insect genomes reveal
natural selection's role in parallel speciation. Science
344: 738-742.
p.christin@sheeld.ac.uk
UToledo FishGenomics
Position or Title: Postdoctoral Researcher in Fish Ge-
nomics and Genetics
Agency/State: University of Toledo, Ohio
Responsibilities: The research entails helping to develop,
test, and publish a Next-generation sequence assay for
detecting and identifying all Great Lakes native and in-
vasive sh species, including those anticipated to invade,
from environmental DNA and plankton samples. The
postdoc will organize large DNA sequence databases,
train and co-supervise students and technicians, and
publish results in high-impact journals.
Qualications: Ph.D. degree required in hand. Pub-
lication of Ph.D. results in peer-reviewed journals re-
quired. Excellent recommendation from former advisors
required. Teaching and supervisory experience preferred.
Data management experience, bioinformatics, and data
analysis experience in molecular phylogenetics and pop-
ulation genetics required. DNA extraction, PCR, DNA
Sequencing (Sanger and Illumina MiSeq), alignment,
and GenBank experience required. Familiarity with
QIMME, Unix/Linux operating systems and writing
Perl is a plus. Strong communication (written, oral)
skills required.
Salary: Competitive salary, full benets.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 111
Ad Closing Date: April 15, 2015 or until lled
Contact/Email: carol.stepien@utoledo.edu
How to Apply
Send (1) cover letter, (2) CV, (3) 2 letters of ref-
erence, (4) unocial copies of graduate and under-
graduate transcripts via .pdf to Dr. Stepien at
carol.stepien@utoledo.edu.
The University of Toledo is an Equal Access, Equal
Opportunity, Armative Action Employer and Educa-
tor and is committed to increasing the diversity of our
campus.
Weblink: http://www.utoledo.edu/nsm/lec/research/-
glgl/index.html Carol A. Stepien, Ph.D. Distinguished
University Professor of Ecology & Director of the
Lake Erie Center University of Toledo 6200 Bayshore
Rd. Oregon OH 43616 carol.stepien@utoledo.edu 419-
530-8362 http://www.utoledo.edu/nsm/lec/ \Stepien,
Carol" <Carol.Stepien@utoledo.edu >
UUtah Evolutionary
GeneticsGenomics Development
Applications are invited for grant-funded postdoctoral
positions in the laboratory of Mike Shapiro in the
Department of Biology, University of Utah (http://-
www.biology.utah.edu/shapiro).
We seek highly motivated and creative colleagues to
study the genetic and developmental basis of phenotypic
variation in the rock pigeon (epidermal, skeletal, and
muscle identity and patterning). Specic projects will
be tailored to the strengths and interests of successful
candidates.
Recent publications from our lab on this topic include:
E.T. Domyan, et al. (2014) Epistatic and combinatorial
eects of pigmentary gene mutations in the domestic
pigeon. Current Biology 24: 459-464
M.D. Shapiro, et al. (2013) Genomic diversity and evo-
lution of the head crest in the rock pigeon. Science 339:
1063-1067.
S.A. Stringham, et al. (2012) Divergence, convergence,
and the ancestry of feral populations in the domestic
rock pigeon. Current Biology 22: 302-308.
Ideal candidates are recent Ph.D. awardees who demon-
strate: 1. A strong background in analysis of geneticand genomic data (e.g., whole-genome resequencing,
GBS/RAD genotyping, QTL mapping) and/or exper-
imental developmental biology (e.g., manipulation of
gene expression, transgenesis, genome editing) 2. An
ability and willingness to work both independently and
collaboratively 3. A strong track record of high-quality
research and publication
To apply, please submit the following materials: 1.
Cover letter that describes your research interests and
goals 2. CV, including a list of publications 3. Names
of three referees who will be willing to submit letters of
reference upon request
Please email application materials in a single PDF le
to Mike Shapiro: shapiro@biology.utah.edu.
Mike Shapiro Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology University of Utah 257 S 1400 E, Room 201
Salt Lake City, UT 84112 (801) 581-5690, fax (801)
581-4668 http://www.biology.utah.edu/shapiro/ Pi-
geonetics! pigeon breeder video game: http://-
learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/pigeons/pigeonetics/
Michael D Shapiro <mike.shapiro@utah.edu >
UUtah
HerbivoreMicrobiomeBiodiversity
*Biodiversity and Metagenomics of the Herbivore Mi-
crobiome*
The Dearing lab at the University of Utah invites ap-
plications for a postdoctoral fellow to participate in a
collaborative study to understand the gut microbiome
of mammalian herbivores with respect to detoxication
of plant defensive compounds. Our investigations sug-
gest 1) the microbiome in the foregut of woodrats is
critical for the ingestion of dietary toxins, 2) microbial
biodiversity is important in this process and 3) previous
exposure to toxins shapes the microbiome. For more
information on previous research, see:
http://biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/Lab/-
publications.html This postdoctoral position will
focus on the inuences of host evolutionary history
and diet in sculpting the diversity and function of the
mammalian microbiome. One component of this will
be a broad survey of microbiomes and phylogeny across
the woodrat genus (*Neotoma). *The ideal candidate
will have a strong interest and experience in microbial
ecology and metagenomics, with experience in gut
systems preferably of vertebrates. Basic bioinformatic112 EvolDir April 1, 2015
and molecular skills are required. Fieldwork for small
mammal collection will be necessary; prior experience
preferred but not required. The candidate should have
a demonstrated record of publication with at least
one rst authored publication in press, and will be
expected to work well in a collaborative environment.
The Dearing lab provides a strong training and career
development environment for candidates interested in
academic positions.
*Applications will be reviewed as they are received until
the position is lled*. The preferred start date is June
15, 2015. Please send cover letter, C.V., statement of
research experience and interests that includes career
goals (1-2 pgs), pdfs of papers, and contact information
(emails, phone numbers and professional relationship)
for at least 3 professional references to Dr. Denise Dear-
ing, denise.dearing@utah.edu; please put 'Microbiome
Postdoctoral Applicant' in the Subject Line.
jaelmalenke@gmail.com
UUtah PlantAnimalMolEvol
*Postdoctoral Fellowship: **Molecular Evolution of
Plant-Animal Interactions*
*Plant-Animal Interactions*: The Dearing lab at the
University of Utah invites applications for a postdoctoral
fellow to participate in a study to understand the co-
evolution of mammalian herbivores and plant defensive
compounds. This collaborative project will investigate
the role of a subfamily of detoxication enzymes with
respect to dietary strategy. Few mammalian herbivores
are capable of dietary specialization. Our preliminary
data suggest the cytochrome P450 2B subfamily is crit-
ical in the biotransformation of plant secondary com-
pounds, particularly terpenes. These enzymes may play
a key role in dietary specialization since substrate speci-
city and catalytic eciency of CYP2B enzymes can be
greatly aected by small changes in amino acid sequence.
The change of even a single amino acid, particularly
in critical regions such as a substrate recognition site,
can have notable eects on metabolism of substrates.
Thus, the structure and copy number of CYP2B genes
may be key in an herbivore's ability specialize on a
terpene-rich diet. The future work consists of charac-
terizing and comparing the amino acid sequences of
CYP2B enzymes of specialist and generalist woodrats
(*Neotoma spp.*) and possibly other terpene feeders.
We are currently sequencing the genome of *Neotomalepida* with assembly expected by April 1, 2015. The
successful applicant will use this new genomic infor-
mation to amplify and sequence CYP2B genes from a
variety of wild mammalian species, compare predicted
protein sequence with respect to degree of dietary spe-
cialization, and characterize the function of the proteins
puried from heterologous expression systems to de-
termine the structural basis of functional dierences.
The applicant may also conduct enzyme assays. This re-
search is a collaborative project with Dr. James Halpert,
UConn and provides possibilities for interactions with
his research group.
For more information on previous research, see:
http://biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/-
Lab/pdf/2012 journal pone.pdf http:/-
/biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/Lab/pdf/-
2009 expression biotrans magnanou.pdf The ideal
candidate will have experience accessing and evaluating
genomic data, using molecular techniques, experience
with biochemical analyses and have an interest in
addressing questions of molecular evolution, molecular
ecology or plant-animal interactions. Animal collection
eldwork is possible. The candidate should have at least
one rst authored publication in press. The Dearing
lab provides a strong training and career development
environment for candidates interested in academic
positions.
Applications will be reviewed as they are received. The
preferred start date is July 6, 2015, with an earlier start
date possible. Please send a cover letter, C.V., state-
ment of research interests that includes career goals (1-2
pgs), pdfs of papers, and contact information (emails
and phone numbers) for at least 3 professional refer-
ences to Dr. Denise Dearing, *denise.dearing@utah.edu
*; please put '*Postdoctoral Applicant CYP2B*' in the
Subject Line.
jaelmalenke@gmail.com
UVermont LoyolaU
ChagasGenomics
Research/Teaching Post-doc in Bioinformatics with an
emphasis on Evolutionary Genomics. The postdoctoral
fellow will use bioinformatics of DNA sequence to un-
derstand the population and evolutionary relationships
of Chagas disease insect vectors and/or parasites. The
post-doc will be mentored to develop 10-15 lectures forApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 113
an introductory biology major's course and/or an area of
candidate's expertise. Ideally, the candidate will spend
50% time each at University of Vermont and Loyola
University New Orleans.
Minimum Qualications: A Ph.D. in a relevant area
such as bioinformatics, genomics or biology.
Preferred Qualications: Documented theoretical and
practical experience with relevant methods in bioinfor-
matics as well as knowledge of evolutionary biology,
ecology and host-parasite interactions. Excellent com-
munication skills, written and spoken are anticipated.
The ability to work collaboratively in an interdisciplinary
research team is desirable.
Position is funded for two years, the preferred stat date
is May 1, 2015.
Inquiries may be addressed to Lori Stevens
at: Lori.Stevens@uvm.edu or Patricia Dorn at:
Dorn@loyno.edu. Please include 'Chagas Post-doc' in
the subject line.
How to Apply: Applications will be reviewed as they
are received. Please send a cover letter, C.V., state-
ment of research interests and career goals (1-2 pgs),
pdfs of papers, and contact information of 3 ref-
erences to Dr. Lori Stevens (lori.stevens@uvm.edu
<mailto:lori.stevens@uvm.edu >) with 'Chagas Post-
doc' in the subject line.
Lori Stevens Professor 321 Marsh Life Science Bulding
Department of Biology University of Vermont Burling-
ton, VT 05401 Ph: 802-656-0445 lori.stevens@uvm.edu
Chagas project website http://-
www.chagasecohealth.com Lori Stevens
<lori.stevens@uvm.edu >
UVirginia EvolutionaryGenomics
The Department of Biology at the University of Virginia
invites applications for a postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate position in the lab of Dr. Benjamin Blackman. The
aims of the position will be tailored to the expertise of
the successful applicant and complement the Blackman
Lab's broad interests in the genetic basis of adaptation
and domestication, the ecology and evolution of plant
development, and mechanisms of organism-environment
interaction.
Applying tools from evolutionary genomics, molecular
genetics, and eld ecology in sunowers (Helianthus)and monkeyowers (Mimulus), our research addresses
the following questions: How do plants cope with daily
and seasonal environmental uctuations? How and why
do these responses evolve along environmental gradi-
ents? How are multi-trait adaptations assembled over
evolutionary time? Current NSF-funded work is focused
on following the history and function of sunower domes-
tication alleles with ancient DNA and gene expression
studies as well as the genetics of natural variation in
solar tracking. Additional lab and eld work in wild
sunowers and monkeyowers centers on the genetic
changes and ecological pressures contributing to clinal
variation in developmental plasticity, with an emphasis
on responses to seasonal cues.
The Research Associate will work closely with the PI, col-
laborators, and lab personnel to design and lead research
in the lab and eld. The position also involves preparing
grant proposals and manuscripts, data management and
dissemination, and mentoring graduate and undergradu-
ate students. The ideal candidate will demonstrate the
ability to integrate across biological disciplines, identify
and troubleshoot promising new methodologies indepen-
dently, and use the appointment to develop and pursue
novel, exciting questions. Demonstrated expertise in
evolutionary genetics, including experience with analysis
of genomic or transcriptomic datasets and programming
for bioinformatics, is essential. Expertise in selection
analysis, QTL mapping, transgene construction and
plant transformation, or gene expression studies is de-
sirable.
The completion of a PhD degree in Biology or related
eld by appointment start date is required. Preferred
appointment start date is June 2015. This is a one-year
appointment; however, appointment may be renewed
for an additional two one-year increments, contingent
upon available funding and satisfactory performance.
To apply, please submit a candidate prole through
Jobs@UVA (https://jobs.virginia.edu) and electronically
attach: curriculum vitae with list of publications, a
cover letter that summarizes research interests and pro-
fessional goals, and contact information for three (3)
references; search on posting number 0615936.
Review of applications will begin March 12, 2015; how-
ever, the position will remain open until lled.
Questions regarding this position should be directed to:
Dr. Benjamin Blackman (bkb2f@virginia.edu)
Questions regarding the Candidate Prole process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to: Rich Haverstrom
(rkh6j@virginia.edu)
The University will perform background checks on all
new hires prior to making a nal oer of employment.114 EvolDir April 1, 2015
The University of Virginia is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. Women, minorities,
veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
Benjamin Blackman Department of Biology University
of Virginia PO Box 400328 Charlottesville, VA 22904
Tel: 434.924.1930 E-mail: bkb2f@virginia.edu Web:
http://people.virginia.edu/ ~bkb2f/Blackman Lab/
bkb2f@virginia.edu
UWashington
PlantFrugivoreCoevolution
A postdoctoral position is available at the Santana
and Riell laboratories at the University of Washing-
ton in Seattle (http://faculty.washington.edu/ssantana/-
wordpress/). The postdoc will be part of the NSF-
funded collaborative project \Chance or necessity?
Adaptive vs. non adaptive evolution in plant-frugivore
interactions". The project will focus on the mutualism
between bats of the genus *Carollia* and their primary
food source, Neotropical *Piper*. The project will in-
tegrate tools from analytical chemistry, genomics and
behavioral ecology to measure the coevolution between
diversity in scent composition of *Piper* fruits and the
olfactory ability and behavioral preferences of *Carol-
lia*. Fieldwork will be based at La Selva Biological
Station in Costa Rica.
The postdoc will be involved in: (a) planning, conduct-
ing and/or supervising chemical assays of fruit volatile
organic compounds (VOCs) in the eld and the lab,
(b) designing and conducting behavioral experiments
on frugivorous bats in Costa Rica, and (c) conduct-
ing phylogenetic and other statistical analyses on VOC
and behavioral data. The ideal candidate will have
a strong background in relevant laboratory and eld
methods. Prociency with R, phylogenetic compara-
tive methods and multivariate statistics will be highly
regarded. Fieldwork will play a central role in this
project, and familiarity with bat research tools will also
be viewed favorably. We seek a highly motivated can-
didate who is able to work both collaboratively and
independently. The position will be lled as soon as
possible, with October being the latest desired start
date.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. Exceptional candidates
completing their Ph.D. within the next few months willalso be considered. Applicants should submit:
1. A cover letter describing research experience, interests
and goals, and their relevance to the project.
2. A full CV, including publications, and
3. The names and contact information for three individ-
uals willing to serve as references.
Please submit all application materials as a single PDF
le to ssantana@uw.edu with \Postdoctoral application"
as the subject line. Funding is available for three years
contingent upon a successful one-year review. Review
of applications will begin April 1st and continue until
the position is lled.
The postdoc will join a center of excellence in ecology,
evolutionary and organismal biology at UW (http://-
www.biology.washington.edu), s/he will have constant
interaction with the rest of the project's collaborative
team (D avalos lab at SUNY Stony Brook), and will
have ample opportunities for further development in
research, teaching and outreach at the Department of
Biology and the Burke Museum of Natural History and
Culture.
ssantana@uw.edu
UWisconsin Madison
PlantQuantGenet
A postdoctoral research associate position is available
in the laboratory of John Doebley at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison to study the quantitative genetics
and genomics of teosinte, the progenitor of maize.
The postdoctoral associate will work as a member of the
NSF-funded Panzea project (www.panzea.org) and use
population genomics to understand the genetic architec-
ture of domestication traits and inbreeding depression
in natural populations of teosinte.
We bred 120 teosinte individuals (parent plants) from
multiple natural populations to create a set of 10,000
progeny of known pedigree. These progeny are being
phenotype for traits related to domestication and local
adaptation. A combination of whole genome sequences
for the 120 parents along with GBS data for the 10,000
progeny provides a knowledge of the whole genome se-
quences of the all 10,000 progeny. These data will be
used to address questions about quantitative genetic
parameters in teosinte, map genes for trait variation,
investigate inbreeding depression, and compare the con-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 115
tributions of dierent functional classes of genomic vari-
ants to trait variation. Potential projects are exible
within the scope of the project.
The postdoctoral associate will work with other team
members on the creation and analysis of this large
dataset combining phenotypes, pedigrees, and GBS
marker data for the 10,000 of teosinte plants. Approxi-
mately1
2of these data are currently available and ready
for analysis, thus the postdoctoral associate can expect
to begin working on analyses for publication during
the rst year of their appointment. There is also an
opportunity to collaborate with other Panzea labs to
compare teosinte population genomic data to that for
maize landraces.
The initial appointment is one year, with the potential
for additional years of support conditional on perfor-
mance. Start dates are open-ended, with preference for
earlier dates.
A Ph.D. in statistical genetics, quantitative genetics,
or closely related eld is required. We seek applicants
with prociency in R and/or SAS programing and a
strong background in quantitative genetics. To apply,
please send (1) a cover letter explaining your interest
in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) contact information
(phone number and email) for three references to jdoeb-
ley@wisc.edu.
SALARY: $42,840
PROPOSED HIRE DATE: June 1, 2015 or later
jdoebley@wisc.edu
Vienna 6 EvolutionaryBiology
CLOSING DATE MARCH 31 2015 - APPLY NOW!
Postdoc positions at the Vetmeduni Vienna 2015
The University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna
(Vetmeduni) is inviting applications for *six post-
doctoral positions* to be lled this year. Successful
candidates will be awarded four-year contracts to un-
dertake basic research in the biological or veterinary sci-
ences. They will be fully integrated in the Vetmeduni's
Postdoc-Programme.
Each of the positions will be allocated to one of the 21
research groups listed below.
Candidates should complete the application form and
send it together with:- a full CV (including a list of publications) - a letter
detailing why they are applying for a position - two
letters of reference
to the Oce for Human Resources.
Send E-Mail to Human Resources
<bewerbungen@vetmeduni.ac.at > *Download
Application Form (.doc, 654 KB) <http://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/leadmin/v/z/forschung/1-
Form.doc >*
*Closing date for applications: March 31st 2015*
Short-listed candidates will be invited to an *interview
in Vienna on May 13th 2015*. Successful candidates
will be expected to take up their positions by the end
of 2015. Postdoc Projects Olena Andrukhova: Role of
vitamin D in the regulation of cardiovascular function
(Code PD0115) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/-
en/research/young-scientists/postdoc-programme/#
>Andrea Jean Betancourt: Population genet-
ics of transposable elements (Code PD0215) <
http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-
scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Pamela Burger:
Genomic selection for docility in old world camelids
- A model for domestication in farm animals (Code
PD0315) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/-
young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Reinhold
Erben: Regeneration of articular cartilage and tendon
lesions using mesenchymal stem cells (Code PD0415)
< http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-
scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Leonida Fusani:
Hormonal control of rapid body mass changes in birds
(Code PD0515) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/-
research/young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >
Michael Hess: Elucidating pathways of Escherichia
coli infections in chickens (Code PD0615) <http://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-scientists/-
postdoc-programme/# >Lukas Kenner: Dissecting
PDGFRB function in NPM - ALK driven lymphoma
(Code PD0715) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/-
research/young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >
Carolin Kosiol: Linking genotypic and phenotypic time
series data through Gaussian process models (Code
PD0815) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/-
young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Norbert
Nowotny: Vector-borne viral infections in central
Europe: virological and entomological investigations
(Code PD0915) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/-
research/young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >
Dustin Penn: How do animals smell out disease? (Code
PD1015) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/-
young-scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Friederike
Range: Towards understanding physiological measure-
ments underlying animal emotions (Code PD1115)116 EvolDir April 1, 2015
< http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-
scientists/postdoc-programme/# >Thomas Ruf: Ther-
mogenesis in the wild boar: the role of Ca2+-cycling in
myocytes (PD1215) <http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/-
en/research/young-scientists/postdoc-programme/#
>Thomas R ulicke: CRISPR/Cas9 technology for
routine in vitro and in vivo applications (Code PD1315)
< http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-
scientists/postdoc-programme/# >
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Wageningen MicrobialSyntheticBiol
Vacancy: Postdoc in Synthetic Biology
We are looking for an enthusiastic, motivated Postdoc on
Synthetic Biology with a strong background in or anity
with experimental work in microorganisms. Candidates
should be procient in molecular biology, proactive, in-
dependent, team player and have the ability to engage
with professionals in adjoining elds.
The candidate should apply the concepts of synthetic
biology enhance our understanding of the fundamental
principles of signalling and regulatory networks in living
organism, to generate a mechanistic understanding with
the aim of constructing novel synthetic systems. Ex-
perience and willingness to interact with colleagues on
large-scale genome engineering and re-factoring, and in-
terplay of the circuits designed and the host chassis (eg.
through omics and detailed biochemical measurements)
will be a substantial bonus. Using an interdisciplinary
and integrated approach the candidate should be able to
work on a small scale/network level to develop/design,
e.g., sensing devices for synthetic signalling networks
within and across cells or the design of (opto) signal-
sensing systems. The candidate should have working
experience or be interested in applying in designing and
implementing synthetic networks exhibiting complex
dynamic behaviour, such as adjustable time-delayed ex-
pression kinetics, tuneable synthetic oscillators or modu-
lar logic gates. He/she should be interested in applying
mathematical, physical and engineering principles in the
design process.
We askFor this position we request:
- A prociency in molecular biology (prokaryotic exper-
tise being a bonus); - A sound knowledge physiology,
biochemistry and Synthetic Biology; - Some computa-
tional competences such as scripting and experience in
interacting with modelers would be advantageous; - The
candidate is required to have a PhD in Biotechnology,
Microbiology, Molecular Life Sciences or related elds;
- Fluent in English, both written and spoken; - The
candidate will collaborate in a team with scientists at
departments of Systems and Synthetic Biology and of
Microbiology.
We oer We oer you a temporary position for a period
of 2 years with possibility for extension or, under spe-
cic circumstances, to engage in a Tenure Track systems
at the WUR. Gross salary 2855 to 3783, based on a
fulltime employment and dependent on expertise and
experience.
We not only oer a competitive salary but also good
(study) leave and a pension of the ABP Pension Fund.
More information For more information about this po-
sition, please contact Prof. V tor Martins dos Santos,
chair Systems and Synthetic Biology, telephone number
+31 317482865.
For more information about the contractual aspects,
please contact Mrs. J. van Meurs, HR advisor, tele-
phone number +31 317480101.
Interested? You can apply online at
www.wageningenur.nl/career until 30th April 2015.
We are Systems Biology is one of the spearheads of
the Wageningen UR, which invests considerably in this
area. The mission of the Laboratory of Systems and
Synthetic Biology is to contribute to the elucidation
of the mechanisms underlying basic cellular processes,
evolution and interactions among microbes and between
microbes and their environment (including the human
host) and to translate this knowledge into applications
of biotechnological, medical and environmental interest.
The Agrotechnology & Food Sciences Group is part of
Wageningen UR where fundamental and applied sci-
ences complement each other. As an important Euro-
pean player, we carry out top-level research and work
alongside authoritative partners within the international
business world as well as the government on 'Healthy
food in a biobased society'. We have a crucial role in
innovations within the market. Entre preneurship and
professionalism are what dene us. In short, we are an
interesting, international employer of stature.
Wageningen University and Research centre delivering
a substantial contribution to the quality of life. ThatApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 117
is our focus - each and every day. Within our domain,
healthy food and living environment, we search for an-
swers to issues aecting society - such as sustainable
food production, climate change and alternative energy.
Of course, we do not do this alone. Every day, 6,500
people work on 'the quality of life', turning ideas into
reality, on a global scale.
Met vriendelijke groet, Kind regards,
Carolien Pinkster SecretaryWageningen University Laboratory of Systems and Syn-
thetic Biology Wageningen Centre for Systems Biology
(WCSB) Laboratory of Microbiology Building 316 Drei-
jenplein 10 6703 HB WAGENINGEN the Netherlands
phone +31 317 482105 fax +31 317 483829 email car-
olien.pinkster@wur.nl
In the oce at: Tuesday / Thursday / Friday 08.30 -
17.00 hours
\Pinkster, Carolien" <carolien.pinkster@wur.nl >
WorkshopsCourses
Arizona Lepidoptera Aug16-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Aveiro Portugal AmphibianConservation May18-22 118
Bialowieza Poland MetaBarcoding Jun1-5 . . . . . . . . 119
CSIC Spain MacroevolutionPhylogenies Sep28-Oct2 120
Debrecen Hungary Myrmecology Jul24-27 . . . . . . . . 120
FridayHarbor ComparativeEmbrylogy Jun15-Jul17 120
Guaruji Brazil Metaanalysis Jun25-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Ilhabela Brazil PhylogeneticComparativeMethods Jul2-
5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Lausanne ESEB2015 ActivelyTeachingEvolution Aug9
122
LipariIsland Italy Bioinformatics Jul19-25 . . . . . . . . 122
NIMBioS EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Aug10-15 . . 123
NorthCarolina EvolutionDisease May4-6 . . . . . . . . . 124
Raleigh NC BioinformaticsPractical May18-22 . . . .125
Raleigh NC BioinformaticsPracticalTools May18-22 125
Rosco MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May31-Jun12 126Sicily SystemsBiol Jul5-9 ApplDeadlineMar31 . . . . 126
StPierredOleron France EvoEpigen May16-22 . . . . 127
SwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
UAzores EvolutionMicroorganisms Aug31-Sep5 . . .128
UBonn CrypticSpeciation Jun5-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
UBremen EvolutionStatisticsUsingR . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
UExeter EvolutionaryBehaviour Jul6-9 . . . . . . . . . . . 130
UMaryland Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
UMichigan EvolutionFieldCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
UMichigan Evolution May24-Aug22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
UNewHampshire BioinformaticsForUndergrads Jul27-
30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
UWestIndies Trinidad ViralEvolution Aug9-14 . . . 132
UWestIndies VirusEvolution Aug9-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
UYork EvolutionOfEvolution Jul24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .133
Venice EvoDevo Sep28-Oct1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134
Arizona Lepidoptera Aug16-25
Announcing the Sixth Annual Lepidoptera Course, 16
V 25 August, 2015.Held at the Southwestern Research Station (SWRS) in
the Chirichahua Mountains in SE Arizona (a 2 1/2 hour
drive from Tucson), the focus of the Lep course is to
train graduate students, post-docs, faculty, state and
federal employees, and serious citizen-scientists in the
classication and identication of adult Lepidoptera and
their larvae. Topics to be covered include the biology118 EvolDir April 1, 2015
and systematics of major families of Lepidoptera, an in-
troduction to adult and larval morphology with a focus
on taxonomically-important traits, extensive eld work
that concentrates on both collecting and photographing
adults and larvae, collecting and curatorial techniques,
genitalic dissection, larval classication, use (and abuse)
of DNA barcoding, and general topics in Lepidoptera
systematics, ecology, and evolution.
With its extensive series of Sky-Island mountain ranges,
SE Arizona has the highest Lepidoptera diversity in the
US. With low desert scrub, oak and mixed oak-pine
woodland, lush riparian, juniper, Douglas r, and moun-
tain meadow habitats all within a 40 minute drive from
the station, the SWRS is an ideal location from which
to sample this diversity (of both habitats and species).
If you want to interact with other Lepidoptera enthusi-
asts, see a spectacular Dysschema, identify the Organ
of vom Rath, sort through trap samples with hundreds
of species, learn about diversity of Lepidoptera , and
enjoy the vistas of the SE Arizona, then this course will
provide a unique experience.
Partial list of Invited instructors (subject to change)
Rich Brown (Mississippi Entomological Museum), Jen-
nifer Bundy (RD4AG), Chris Grinter (Illinois Natural
History Survey), Don Harvey (Smithsonian), Sangmi
Lee (Arizona State University), Chris Schmidt (Cana-
dian National Collection), Bruce Walsh (University of
Arizona)
For more information, see http://research.amnh.org/-
swrs/education/lepidoptera-course or
www.lepcourse.org or contact Bruce Walsh at jb-
walsh@u.arizona.edu You can also see photos and
comments from students in the 2011 course at their
facebook site, \2011 Lep Course, SWRS SEAZ".
\Walsh, James Bruce - (jbwalsh)"
<jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu >
Aveiro Portugal
AmphibianConservation May18-22
The 1st Course on Amphibian Conservation and Hus-
bandry (ACH) is an interesting and intensive course to
researchers or technical sta working with amphibians
and looking for more complete basis on Amphibian Con-
servation and Husbandry. The course will be held from
18th to 22nd May. Registrations for this edition already
available (http://ach2015.wix.com/ach2015).The course explores the principles of amphibians hus-
bandry, nutrition and dietary needs, captive reproduc-
tion, population management, veterinary aspects (dis-
eases, pathology, and necropsy), biosecurity and quaran-
tine, conservation, threats and global action. Hands on
demonstrations, practical and group exercises are also
included (enclosure demonstrations: tank drilling, false
bottoms and plumbing, lters).
Speakers:
Luis Carrillo, University of Mexico City, AArk
Isabel Lopes, University of Aveiro, CESAM
To be conrmed.
To be conrmed.
Important note: the course will not start if a minimum
of 10 participants will not be reached; similarly the
maximum number of participants is 15.
Inscription fees include: attending at the course and the
use of all the materials provided by University of Aveiro
and the AArk.
The course will be held in partnership with the or-
ganization of the Advanced Course Ecotoxicology of
Amphibians and Reptiles: from theory to practice 
(https://sites.google.com/site/ecotoxamre/). Registra-
tion in both courses have reduced fees (through Ecotox
course payment proof).
Fees:
ACH Course only
General: 350 euros
Student: 250 euros
UA Student: 250 euros
ACH Course (with Ecotox Registration)
General: 230 euros
Student: 170 euros
UA Student: 250 euros
Applications should be sent to: emanuele.fasola@ua.pt
till the 10th of April 2015.
Applications results and the instructions for payment
will be notied to participants no later than 48h af-
ter. The payment proof must be sent to us for the
registration to be valid.
Sara
Sara Costa <sara dacosta@hotmail.com >April 1, 2015 EvolDir 119
Bialowieza Poland MetaBarcoding
Jun1-5
Dear Colleagues,
We are please to announce that this year the fth DNA
Metabarcoding Spring School will held in Bialowieza
(Poland) and will be organized in collaboration with
Rafal Kowalczyk and Jan W ojcik from the Bialowieza
Mammal research institute.
Please take care than this year the registration period
is really short and will end by April the 15th, 2015.
http://metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article70 Best re-
gards
Eric Coissac
Dr Eric Coissac Associate professor Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine UMR CNRS-UJF 5553 / UMR CNRS
5553 Universit e J. Fourier Domaine de Saint Martin
d'H eres 2233, rue de la piscine B ~At. D Biologgie BP 53,
38041 Grenoble Cedex 9 France
The fth DNA metabarcoding Spring School at
BiaAowie A1
4a
DNA metabarcoding is a rapidly evolving method for
assessing biodiversity from environmental DNA. It has
a wide range of applications: biodiversity monitoring,
animal diet assessment, reconstruction of paleo com-
munities, among others. DNA metabarcoding relies on
molecular techniques such as PCR and next generation
sequencing, and requires bioinformatics and biostatis-
tics competence to analyze sequencing results. This
approach integrates several scientic areas and requires
a broad range of skills, in addition to the classical eco-
logical knowledge related to the considered research
topic.
The DNA metabarcoding spring school is now in its fth
edition and this year it is co-organized by the metabar-
coding.org team and the Mammal Research Institute,
Polish Academy of Sciences in Bia Aowie A1
4a, Poland.
The DNA metabarcoding spring school will hold from
the 1st to 5th of June 2015.
Participants can register for the school (24 places) by
sending an email to the following address :
bialowieza2015@metabarcoding.org
The email must contain a brief curriculum vitae anda letter of motivation indicating how your researches
are related to DNA metabarcoding and what you are
hoping from this school. As part of the course program,
each participant is required to give a ash talk (5 min-
utes) about its research and how it is related to DNA
metabarcoding.
Registration deadline is 15 April 2015
Main lecturers
- Marta de Barba (LECA, CNRS, France) - Aur elie
Bonin (LECA, CNRS, France) - Fr ed eric Boyer (LECA,
CNRS, France) - Antony Chariton (CSIRO, Australia) -
Eric Coissac (LECA, CNRS, France) - H ~Avard Kauserud
(University of Oslo, Norway) - Dorota Porazinska (Uni-
versity of Florida, USA) - Pierre Taberlet (LECA,
France) - Lucie Zinger (EDB, CNRS, France)
Course Schedule
The school will consist of a series of lectures and prac-
ticals introducing dierent aspects of DNA metabar-
coding. Bioinformatics practicals will introduce data
analysis from raw sequences to basic ecological conclu-
sions. Molecular ecology practical will present basic
technics for DNA extraction in eld condition and DNA
amplication by PCR. More details are available on the
following web page
http://metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article70 Travel
and accommodation
To join Bia Aowie A1
4a, the easiest way is to reach War-
saw airport. According to the number of participant,
we will propose to you the most convenient solution to
travel from Warsaw to Bia Aowie A1
4a the Sunday 31h
of March afternoon.
Accommodation will be provided in double bedrooms
at the guesthouse located in the park close to the place
of the school. Meals will be served at the same place at
the Parkowa restaurant.
Workshop Costs
There are no registration fees for the workshop. Partici-
pants will have to pay for their accommodation, meals
and travel expenses. The cost for accommodation and
meals for 6 days is estimated to 1500 PLN ( 360^ a :):
eric.coissac@inria.fr120 EvolDir April 1, 2015
CSIC Spain
MacroevolutionPhylogenies
Sep28-Oct2
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \THE USE OF PHY-
LOGENIES IN THE STUDY OF MACROEVOLU-
TION - 3rd edition", Septiembre 28-October 2, 2015.
Instructor: Dr. Juan L opez Cantalapiedra (Museo de
Ciencias Naturales, CSIC, Spain).
New phylogenetic methods would allow us to draw on
the information encapsulated in phylogenetic trees in
order to address a wide range of questions on macroevo-
lution. First, this course will introduce participants to
the use, modication and representation of phylogenetic
trees. Then, we will focus on the use of phylogenetic
information to reconstruct ancestral characters and bio-
geographic histories, learning how to apply phylogenetic
comparative methods. This course will also tackle trait
evolution modelling and the assessment of phylogenetic
signal. Finally, we will learn about the shape of phy-
logenetic trees and its evolutionary causes and how to
estimate the rates of diversication throughout the evo-
lutionary history of groups. Participants are encouraged
to bring their data sets to use in the practical class.
Important note: Please bear in mind that this course is
not about reconstructing (building) phylogenetic trees.
Software: Mesquite, TreeEdit, FigTree, BayesTraits
(using BayesTraits Wrapper in R), Tracer, RASP
and R (ape, TreeSim, TreePar, Geiger, OUwie, Bio-
GeoBEARS).
Place: Facilities of the CRIP at Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain).
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Centre de
Restauraci o i Interpretaci o Paleontologica and the Insti-
tut Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/evol/-
phylogeny-and-macroevolution/ or writing to
courses@transmittingscience.org
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD.soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Debrecen Hungary Myrmecology
Jul24-27
Dear Colleagues,
We kindly invite you to the 6th Central European
Workshop of Myrmecology held in Debrecen, Hungary
between 24-27 July 2015. Please visit our webpage:
cewm2015.unideb.hu for details and subscribe to our
newsletter: http://cewm2015.unideb.hu/news PLEASE
NOTE, the extended deadline of registration and Ab-
stract submission is the midnight of 23rd of March! We
are sorry if you received this newsletter a bit late.
Best Regards,
the Organisers
Contact info: cewm-info@unideb.hu Homepage:
http://cewm2015.unideb.hu/ Registration: http://-
regisztracio.unideb.hu/en/cewm2015 List archives:
http://levlista.unideb.hu/cgi-bin/mailman/private/-
cewm2015/ Thank you very much in advance,
Andr as Tartally and the other Organisers
CEWM 2015 contact <cewm-info@unideb.hu >
FridayHarbor
ComparativeEmbrylogy Jun15-Jul17
Hello,
There are still spots open in the Comparative Inverte-
brate Embryology course at the Friday Harbor Labs
(June 15 to July 17, 2015). It's a great course for any-
one interested in the evolution of development, animal
evolution, developmental mechanisms, life histories, or
anything else involving early animal life stages. The
Friday Harbor Labs is also a wonderful place to experi-
ence: not only does it have a truly amazing diversity of
organisms, but it is in a beautiful location, and provides
opportunities to interact with a broad community of
biologists from all over.
Please see http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentSummer2015.html#SumA-4 for the courseApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 121
description.
Thanks for taking a look.
{Mickey
Michelangelo von Dassow <mvondass@gmail.com >
Guaruji Brazil Metaanalysis
Jun25-26
Subject line: *Workshop @ Evolution meeting in meta-
analysis*
*Short Workshop: Introduction to Meta-Analysis and
Systematic Reviews*
*June 25 \ June 26, 2015*
Instructors:
*Jessica Gurevitch* (Stony Brook University, State Uni-
versity of New York)
*Marc Lajeunesse *(University of South Florida)
A 1.5 day workshop will be held before the Evolution
meeting in Guaruj a, Brazil, starting on the afternoon
of June 25. The cost is $60 U.S. per participant. Some
scholarships may be available. Applications and regis-
tration details are available at:
http://lajeunesse.myweb.usf.edu/-
ASN workshop 2015.html Participation is limited to
24 people. Sponsored by the *American Society of
Naturalists*.
*Introduction/Objectives*
*Synopsis:* Participants will become familiar with what
meta-analysis is, where it comes from, some examples
of how it has been used in ecology and evolution, and
its major strengths, weaknesses, advantages and limita-
tions as a tool for the quantitative summary of research
results. They will be introduced to the formal methods
for carrying out a systematic review, which may (or
may not) be combined with a meta-analysis, and to the
problems and issues involved in carrying out systematic
reviews. They will become familiar with carrying out the
calculations involved in typical ecological meta-analyses,
and learn how to interpret the results. We will look very
briey at some of the areas of current development in
meta-analysis in ecology, evolution, and conservation, in-
cluding integrating phylogenetic information in analyses
and imputation methods. We also introduce criteria for
evaluating and critiquing the results of meta-analysesin the literature.
Workshop participants should have a general background
in statistics (anova, regression, etc.) and graduate-level
understanding of experimental design, ecology, evolu-
tion and/or conservation research. No real familiarity
with meta-analysis is necessary.
*Format of the course:*
Lectures, demonstrations of methods, hands-on compu-
tational experience with ample opportunities for ques-
tions and feedback, group discussions and presentations,
and peer critiques.
*Prerequisites*: An introductory statistics course cover-
ing up to regression and ANOVA. Background in ecology
and evolutionary biology. Familiarity with experimen-
tal design and more advanced statistics and probability
desirable but not necessary.
*Software:*
OpenMEE (open meta-analysis software for ecol-
ogy and evolution). Freely available at: http://-
www.cebm.brown.edu/open mee. Familiarity and expe-
rience with *R* is not necessary but will prove useful.
jessica.gurevitch@stonybrook.edu
Ilhabela Brazil
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Jul2-5
Intensive short course on phylogenetic comparative
methods in R
We are pleased to announce a new graduate-level in-
tensive short course on the use of R for phylogenetic
comparative analysis. The course will be four days
in length and will take place at the Hotel Ilha Flata
(http://www.ilhaat.com) in Ilhabela, Sao Paulo State,
Brazil, from the 2nd to the 5th of July, 2015. This
course is funded by the National Science Foundation.
The course is free of cost, and accommodation at the
course venue, as well as breakfast & lunch on all course
days, is included for all accepted students. There will be
a small number of travel stipends available for qualied
students and post-docs. Applicants are welcome from
any country, but are especially encouraged from the
Latin American region.
Topics covered will include: an introduction to the R
environment and programming language, tree manipula-122 EvolDir April 1, 2015
tion, independent contrasts and phylogenetic generalized
least squares, ancestral state reconstruction, models of
character evolution, diversication analysis, and com-
munity phylogenetic analysis. Course instructors will
include Dr. Liam Revell (University of Massachusetts
Boston), Dr. Luke Harmon (University of Idaho), and
Dr. Mike Alfaro (University of California, Los Angeles).
Instruction in the course will be primarily in English,
thus all students must have a basic working knowledge
of scientic English. To apply for the course, please
submit your CV along with a short (maximum 1 page)
description of your research interests, background, and
reasons for taking the course. Admission is competitive,
and preference will go towards students with background
in phylogenetics and a compelling motivation for taking
the course. Applications should be submitted by email
to ilhabela.phylogenetics.course@gmail.com by May 1st,
2015. Questions can be directed to liam.revell@umb.edu.
{ Liam J. Revell, Assistant Professor of Bi-
ology University of Massachusetts Boston
web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/ email:
liam.revell@umb.edu blog: http://blog.phytools.org
Liam.Revell@umb.edu
Lausanne ESEB2015
ActivelyTeachingEvolution Aug9
*Workshop: Actively teaching evolution 9 ^th August,
ESEB 2015, Lausanne. *
**
As part of the 15th ESEB congress, we are organising
a workshop to explore methods and resources available
for the enquiry-based teaching of evolution.
An understanding of evolution is crucial in order to
make informed decisions on important issues ranging
from antibiotic resistance to the consequences of climate
change. However, teaching evolution is often challenging
because there can be a number of social challenges and
misconceptions about evolutionary theory both among
teachers and their students.
After the success of the ESEB 2013 workshop in Lisbon,
the aim of this event is to further promote dialogue
among evolutionary biology researchers and local teach-
ers. The day will include plenary talks on education
and outreach, research talks by evolutionary biologists
interested in outreach and hands-on activities that build
on the concepts addressed during the talks.Poster presentations are encouraged, but not mandatory.
The language of the event will be decided according to
participant capabilities and needs.
The event will take place at the \ ~Aprouvette", a public
science laboratory situated at the heart of the University
of Lausanne campus.
http://wp.unil.ch/mediationscientique/activites/-
eprouvette/ Please note that the event will take place
on Sunday the 9 ^th August, a day before the ocial
start of the congress.
**
A contribution towards the costs of this event is *25
Swiss Francs*. This includes two coee breaks, lunch
and a cheese and wine session. The restof the event is
funded by the ESEB Outreach Fund, with a participa-
tion from the Cercle FSER.
For further information:
http://wp.unil.ch/eseb2015/satellite-workshops/ Appli-
cations are open and places are limited to 15 researchers.
Participants will be selected based on their interest in
outreach. Deadline for applications is May 31 ^st 2015.
To apply:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1uD9vAoAcgF6fACIwuW 4H4vh1OPfB7luB2JELMNNEo/-
viewform For information on other outreach events at
ESEB and registration see here:
http://outreachateseb2015.tumblr.com/ If you
have any questions please contactTania Jenkins
(tania.jenkins@unil.ch)
Tania Jenkins <tania.jenkins@unil.ch >
LipariIsland Italy Bioinformatics
Jul19-25
Computational Dynamic Analysis of Biological Pro-
cesses http://lipari.cs.unict.it/LipariSchool/Bio July 19
- July 25, 2015 Lipari Island, Italy
Aim and scope:
Processes is one of the most challenging research areas
in modern life science. Topics such as Disease Dynamics,
Drug Resistance, Immune System Analysis, Emerging
Mutations, Microbiome Analysis, and Biological Net-
works Evolution involve intriguing and still unsolved
problems. On the other hand, the availability of NextApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 123
Generation Sequencing and other High-throughput tech-
niques provide a strong support for scientists working
in this eld. Our main and special guest lectures will
address the scope focusing on algorithms, computational
models, biomedical and biotechnological results on this
eld. From the enclosed bibliography, it appears that
the selected themes have received much attention in the
scholarly literature ranging from Nature and Science to
Bioinformatics Journals.
Speakers
Peer Bork Network Dynamics European Molecular Bi-
ology Laboratory (EMBL), Heidelberg, GERMANY
Je Gore Evolutionary Game-Theoretic Models MIT,
Massachussets, USA
Laxmi Parida Evolutionary Dynamics IBM, Thomas J.
Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY, USA
Stephen Quake NGS and Cancer Dynamics Stanford
University, California, USA
Guest speakers
Eric Jonasch Molecular Determinants of Renal Cell Car-
cinoma Ontogeny and Progression MD Anderson Cancer
Center,Houston,Texas,USA
Michael Levitt Stanford University, California, USA
Participants will be arranged in a comfortable hotel at
very special rates. The conference room (in the same ho-
tel) is air-conditioned and equipped with all conference
materials. Special areas are reserved to students for the
afternoon coursework and study. The island of Lipari
can be easilyreached from Milazzo, Palermo, Naples,
Messina and Reggio Calabria by ferry or hydrofoil (50
minutes from Milazzo). Two kinds of participants are
welcome. Students: Participants who are expected to
do afternoon courseworks and take a nal exam (The
grades will be given following the ECTS grading scale).
The course will involve a total of 24 hours of teach-
ing. According to our university rules passing the nal
exam gives right to an equivalent of 6 ECTS credits
in any Ph.D. program. Auditors: participants who are
not interested in taking the nal exam. Registration
fee is 470 Euros. The fee covers the course material,
bus+hydrofoil Catania airport-Lipari-Catania airport,
social event. Late registration is 570 Euros.
Applications can be submitted from November 1, 2014
up to May 29, 2015. Late registrations will be accepted
until July 14th. Admission notication will start on
March 2nd, according to registration time. Applicants
must include a short curriculum vitae.
The ocial language is English.
School Directors Prof. Alfredo Ferro (University of Cata-nia) Prof. Raaele Giancarlo (University of Palermo)
Prof. Concettina Guerra (Georgia Institute of Technol-
ogy) Prof. Michael Levitt (Stanford University)
Dr. Rosalba Giugno (co-director, University of Cata-
nia) Prof. Alfredo Pulvirenti (co-director, University of
Catania)
People interested in receiving further information about
the school can contact:
Lipari School Organization Prof. Alfredo Ferro { Li-
pari School secretary Universit a degli Studi di Catania -
Dipartimento di Matematica e Informatica Citt a Uni-
versitaria - Viale A.Doria, 6 - 95125 Catania - ITALY
Tel: +39 095 7383071 Fax: +39 095 7337032 / +39 095
330094 E-mail: liparischool@dmi.unict.it
Alfredo Ferro <liparischool@dmi.unict.it >
NIMBioS
EvolutionaryQuantGenetics
Aug10-15
Please distribute to interested colleagues.
The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) is now accepting applications for
its Tutorial, \Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics," to
be held August 10-15, 2015, at NIMBioS.
OBJECTIVES: Quantitative genetic theory has been
applied to a wide range of phenomena including the
evolution of dierences between the sexes, sexual pref-
erences, life history traits, plasticity of traits, as well
as the evolution of body size and other morphological
measurements. This tutorial is for evolutionary biolo-
gists interested in how quantitative genetics theory can
be tested with data, both from single species and with
multiple-species phylogenies. Participants { graduate
students, postdocs, and junior faculty { will learn how
to use R to build and test evolutionary models. There
is a need for evolutionary biologists to understand the
eld of evolutionary quantitative genetics because of the
ability to collect large amounts of data by computer,
the development of statistical methods for changes of
traits on evolutionary trees and for changes in a single
species through time, and the realization that quanti-
tative characters will not soon be fully explained by
genomics.
The content of this tutorial will be similar to the
workshop held at NIMBioS in 2014. For information124 EvolDir April 1, 2015
about the Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics 2014 tu-
torial held at NIMBioS, visit http://www.nimbios.org/-
tutorials/TT eqg . LOCATION: NIMBioS at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee, Knoxville
CO-ORGANIZERS: Stevan J. Arnold, Integrative Biol-
ogy, Oregon State Univ. and Joe Felsenstein, Genome
Sciences, Univ. of Washington, Seattle
INSTRUCTORS: Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiol-
ogy, Washington State Univ., Pullman; Tyler Hether, Bi-
ological Sciences, Univ. of Idaho, Moscow; Adam Jones,
Biology, Texas A&M Univ.; Emilia Martins, Biology,
Indiana Univ., Bloomington; Brian O'Meara, Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology, Univ. of Tennessee; Liam Revell,
Biology, Univ. of Massachusetts, Boston; and Michael
Whitlock, Zoology, Univ. of British Columbia
CO-SPONSOR: The American Society of Naturalists
For more information about the tutorial and a link to the
online application form, go to http://www.nimbios.org/-
tutorials/TT eqg2015 There are no fees associated with
this tutorial. Tutorial participation in the tutorial is by
application only. Individuals with a strong interest in
the topic, including post-docs and graduate students,
are encouraged to apply, and successful applicants will
be notied within two weeks of the application deadline.
FOOD AND LODGING: Breakfast and lunch will be
provided at NIMBioS each day of the tutorial, as well
as coee and mid-morning and mid-afternoon snacks.
NIMBioS is not covering other expenses for participants,
but a block of rooms will be reserved at a nearby hotel.
More information will be available on our website soon
about lodging, room rates, and how participants can
make reservations.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: May 1, 2015
The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) (http://www.nimbios.org) brings
together researchers from around the world to collabo-
rate across disciplinary boundaries to investigate solu-
tions to basic and applied problems in the life sciences.
NIMBioS is sponsored by the National Science Foun-
dation, with additional support from The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville.
Catherine Crawley, Ph.D. Communications Manager
National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) University of Tennessee 1122
Volunteer Blvd, Ste. 106 Knoxville, TN 37996 e ccraw-
ley@nimbios.org t +1 865 974 9350 f +1 865 974 9461
http://www.nimbios.org http://www.facebook.com/-
nimbios http://twitter.com/nimbios To receive email
notications of blog updates, click here http://-
www.nimbios.org/wordpress/subscribe2updates/ Tosubscribe to our bi-monthly newsletter, click here
http://visitor.r20.constantcontact.com/manage/optin/-
ea?v=001RgvbKVLa7a4Psoj8H7c43A%3D%3D Joe
Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu >
NorthCarolina EvolutionDisease
May4-6
Call for Participants: Catalysis Meeting on \Biodiver-
sity, Conservation and Infectious Disease"
On May 4-6, 2015, the Triangle Center for Evolutionary
Medicine (TriCEM), the National Evolutionary Syn-
thesis Center (NESCent) and the Duke Tropical Con-
servation Initiative (DTCI) will be hosting a Catalysis
Meeting on \Biodiversity, Conservation and Infectious
Disease." The organizers are Charles Nunn, Hillary
Young, Gavin Smith and Jerey Vincent.
The goal of the meeting is to understand how changes
in biodiversity impact infectious disease risk in humans
and wildlife. Remarkably little eort has synthesized
either theory or data on the ecacy of biodiversity and
conservation practices as a disease management strat-
egy, the eects of dierent anthropogenic changes on
infectious disease risk in the tropics, or the impacts of
dierent conservation strategies on human health. We
will take a broad view on this important issue by ex-
amining the many potential links between changes in
biodiversity and infectious disease risk, and by consider-
ing the diversity of ways to investigate these questions
using empirical and theoretical approaches. We will also
engage with the conicting views that natural systems
appear to buer some disease risks, yet they can also
serve as the source of new infectious diseases.
The meeting will be composed of approximately 10 re-
searchers from Research Triangle universities (Duke,
UNC-Chapel Hill, NC State, and NC Central), with
another 25 participants from outside the Triangle. All
travel expenses will be covered for non-Triangle par-
ticipants, and meeting-associated meals covered for all
participants. In building the participant list, we seek
a wide range of interests, approaches, and experience
levels. Thus, we welcome modeling approaches, eld
biologists, and those with expertise in meta-analysis,
and graduate students, postdocs, and faculty. At the
meeting, we will work toward specic outputs, which
will include a special \theme" issue in a high-impact
journal that synthesizes diverse views on this impor-
tant topic, and development of future working groupsApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 125
to investigate specic questions in greater depth.
For those wishing to participate in the Catalysis Meet-
ing \ including scientists from the Research Triangle
Universities " we ask that you ll out a brief application
at this link: http://goo.gl/forms/LuCWB5Vhgm .We
will begin inviting participants after March 14.
For questions, please contact Charles Nunn at
clnunn@duke.edu.
charleslnunn@gmail.com
Raleigh NC BioinformaticsPractical
May18-22
We still have space! Please contat us if you have any
questions or need additional info. Hope to see you iin
Raleigh.
Spring workshop in Bioinformatics
Raleigh, North Carolina May 18 - 22, 2015
The handling of large datasets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many bi-
ologists nd that there is a steep learning curve to de-
velop the condence required to explore their genomics
datasets eectively. This bioinformatics short course
includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction and
lectures specically intended to help novice users be-
come comfortable with a range of tools currently used
to analyze next-generation data. There is no prereq-
uisite for this course other than a willingness to learn
and to work hard throughout the week. All workshop
exercises will be implemented via VirtualBox and focus
on Illumina data.
Course participation is limited to to 25 students to
ensure an intimate learning environment. Course instuc-
tors: Nic Blouin, PhD & Ian Misner PhD
Full course information/topics, contact, instruc-
tor info, and application instructions at https://-
biodatatraining.wordpress.com nblouin69@gmail.comRaleigh NC
BioinformaticsPracticalTools
May18-22
Hi Everyone-
We have 5 spots left! https://-
biodatatraining.wordpress.com I am writing to
provide and update on our workshop:
We have booked into a conference space at HQ Raleigh
(http://hqraleigh.com/) and believe it will provide us
with the space and resources we need for a terric work-
shop.
Please contact us if you have any questions or need
additional info. Hope to see you in Raleigh. Nic and
Ian
Spring workshop in Bioinformatics
Raleigh, North Carolina May 18 - 22, 2015
The handling of large datasets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many bi-
ologists nd that there is a steep learning curve to de-
velop the condence required to explore their genomics
datasets eectively. This bioinformatics short course
includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction and
lectures specically intended to help novice users be-
come comfortable with a range of tools currently used
to analyze next-generation data. There is no prereq-
uisite for this course other than a willingness to learn
and to work hard throughout the week. All workshop
exercises will be implemented via VirtualBox and focus
on Illumina data.
Course participation is limited to to 25 students to
ensure an intimate learning environment.
Course instuctors: Nic Blouin, PhD & Ian Misner PhD
Full course information/topics, contact, in-
structor info, and application instructions at
https://biodatatraining.wordpress.com nic blouin
<nblouin69@gmail.com >126 EvolDir April 1, 2015
Rosco
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May31-Jun12
SUMMER COURSE ON MARINE GENOMICS
AT THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL STATION OF
ROSCOFF (F)
Second announcement
>From May 31st - June 12th, 2015 the 11th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
takes place at the Station Biologique de Rosco, Rosco,
France.
Aims: Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding
the marine environment and for an ecient use of its
resources. State of the art NGS methods have revolution-
ized the eld, spawning applications in basic research
and environmental management. The course will give in-
sight into population, environmental, biodiversity, com-
parative, evolutionary and functional genomics through
lectures, case studies and computer labs. It takes place
at the Biological Station, a vibrant research community
of 273 scientists and support personnel, located in the
old town and shing port of Rosco, Brittany, France.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics. * Genomics -
next generation sequencing, database searching, basic
skills in data handling and bioinformatics * Popula-
tion genomics - diversity, structure, connectivity and
gene ow, assignment, eective population size, pop-
ulation dynamics, adaptive variation, genotyping by
sequencing * Environmental genomics - environment -
genome interactions, ecogenomics, metagenomics and
metagenetics * Functional genomics - genome structure,
molecular evolution at the functional level, genomic ar-
chitecture, functional networks * Comparative genomics
- whole genome comparisons, concatenated phylogenies,
genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group: PhD students (at least in their second
year) and junior postdocs with a solid knowledge in phy-
logenetics and/or population genetics. 18 participants
will be selected on the following criteria: 1. Relevance
of the course for their PhD or post-doc project 2. Back-
ground and experience 3. We aim at training peoplewith dierent research backgrounds; not more than one
person per institute will be considered. We implement
a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by March 25th and
will have to conrm attendance within 7 days. There is
a waiting list in case of non- conrmations and cancel-
lations.
Teaching sta : Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR Simon
Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls,
FR Jakob Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK Erica
Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi Fr ed eric Partensky, SB-Rosco,
FR Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco Filip Volckaert, Univ.
Leuven, BE Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR Matthias Obst, Univ.
Gothenburg, SE Sarah Bourlat, Univ. Gothenburg, SE
Nic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA Nathalie Turque,
EMBRC-France, FR Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
For information, a yer and application please check
http://meeg2015.sciencesconf.org . The application
deadline is March 10 2015.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Sicily SystemsBiol Jul5-9
ApplDeadlineMar31
Call for Participation (apologies for multiple copies)
Please forward to anybody who might be interested.
Synthetic and Systems Biology Summer School - 2nd
Edition Taormina - Sicily, Italy, July 5-9, 2015
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/ ss-
bss.school@gmail.com
* News * New Speaker! Ron Weiss, MIT, USA
** Deadlines ** Student Application: March 31, 2015
Oral/Poster Submission: March 31, 2015
** List of Speakers ** * Adam Arkin, University of
California Berkeley, USA * Jef Boeke, New York Univer-
sity, USA * Angela DePace, Harvard University, USA *
Forbes Dewey, MIT, USA * Karmella Haynes, Arizona
State University, USA * Richard Kitney, Imperial Col-
lege London, UK * Timothy Lu, MIT, USA * Philip
Maini, Oxford University, UK * Giancarlo Mauri, Uni-
versity of Milano - Bicocca, Italy * Steve Oliver, Cam-
bridge University, UK * Velia Siciliano, MIT, USA * Ron
Weiss, MIT, USA * Nicola Zamboni, ETH, SwitzerlandApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 127
** Industrial Panel ** * Jon D. Chesnut, Life Sciences So-
lutions Group -Thermo Fisher Scientic, USA * Speaker
TBA, Autodesk Inc., USA * Zach Serber, Zymergen,
Inc. USA
School Directors Jef D. Boeke, New York University,
USA Giuseppe Nicosia, University of Catania, Italy
Mario Pavone, University of Catania, Italy Giovanni
Stracquadanio, University of Oxford, UK
** Short Talk and Poster Submission ** Students may
submit a research abstract for presentation. School di-
rectors will review the abstracts and will recommend
for poster or short-oral presentation. Abstract should
be submitted by March 31, 2015. The abstracts will be
published on the electronic hands-out material of the
summer school.
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/-
index.html#applicationForm http://-
www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/ ssbss.school@gmail.com
Apologies for multiple copies. Please forward to any-
body who might be interested.
cfp.ssbss@dmi.unict.it
StPierredOleron France EvoEpigen
May16-22
Bonjour,
Rappel: les inscriptions pour l' ecole th ematique Eco-
Evo-Epigen le 18-22 Mai 2015  a St.Pierre d'Ol eron sont
ouverts sur le site
http://rtp-3e.wix.com/rt3e#!et-3e/cwad L' ecole est or-
ganis e par le R eseau th ematique pluridisciplinaire (RTP)
3E Epig en etique en Ecologie et Evolution. La participa-
tion  a l' ecole th ematique est gratuit pour les membres
CNRS. Pour les membres externes: thesards 150, Post-
Doc/IE/IR/ 300. Le nombre de participants est limit e
 a 40.
Date limite est le 20 mars 2015.
A tr es bient^ ot - Christoph Grunau
^ a
Dear Colleagues,
Reminder: I am happy to announce that the enrolle-
ments for the CNRS \summer" school Eco-Evo-Epigen
the 18-22 Mai 2015 in St.Pierre d'Ol eron (France) are
now open on our websitehttp://rtp-3e.wix.com/rt3e#!et-3e/cwad This event is
organised by the research network 3E (Epigenetics in
Ecology and Evolution). Inscription is free for CNRS
members. Non-CNRS are asked to contribute 150 for
PhD students and 300 for PostDocs etc. The number
of participants is limited to 40.
Ocial languages are French and English.
Deadline for inscription is March 20, 2015.
Please don't hesitate to contact me for further informa-
tion.
Very best regards - Christoph Grunau
^ a
Programme:
- Aspects historiques et  epist emologiques de
l' epig en etique Francesca Merlin (CR2, CNRS-
IHPST), Antonine Nicoglou (PostDoc Labex \Who
Am I?", CRPMS & Institut Jacques Monod, IHPST)
Conf erence/d ebat
- Bases  epig en etiques de la plasticit e et variabilit e
ph enotypiques St ephane Maury (Pr. Univ Orl eans),
Marie Mirouze (CR2, IRD) Cours interactif
- R^ ole de l' epig en etique dans la structuration et
l' evolution des g enomes Marie Mirouze (CR2, IRD),
Cl ementine Vitte (CR1, CNRS) Cours interactif
- Concepts et mod eles de l'h eritabilit e Frank Johannes
(Pr. Univ of Groningen), Etienne Danchin (DR CNRS)
Cours interactif
- Techniques d' epig en etique mol eculaire: quels outils
pour quelles questions St ephane Maury (Pr. Univ),
Marie Mirouze (CR2, IRD), Clementine Vitte TD/TP
- Analyse et traitement des donn ees (BS-Seq, Me-DIP,
ChIP-Seq) Christoph Grunau (Pr. Univ), Cl ementine
Vitte (CR1, CNRS) TD/TPbioinfo
- Techniques sp eciques  a l'analyse ADN r ep et ees et
ARNsnon-codantsCristina Vieira (Pr. Univ),
Emmanuelle Lerat (CR1, CNRS) TD/TPbioinfo
- D enition de l' epig en etique Frank Johannes (Pr. Univ
of Groningen), Antonine Nicoglou (PostDoc Labex
\Who Am I?", CRPMS & Institut Jacques Monod, IH-
PST) table ronde
- Vers une nouvelle conception de l'h er edit e, implica-
tions  evolutives Francesca Merlin (CR2, CNRS-IHPST),
Etienne Danchin (DR CNRS) table ronde
Christoph Grunau Prof. des Universit es/Professor
(HDR) IHPE UMR 5244 Universit e de Perpignan
Via Domitia 58 Avenue Paul Alduy B ~At R F-66860
Perpignan Cedex, France Tel 33 (0)4.68.66.21.80 Fax128 EvolDir April 1, 2015
33 (0)4.68.66.22.81 http://ihpe.univ-perp.fr/ http:/-
/methdb.univ-perp.fr/epievo/ Christoph Grunau
<grunau@methdb.net >
SwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20
Workshop announcement - registration deadline ap-
proaching (15 April 2015)
A few places are still available in our workshop on \The-
oretical and empirical evidence of adaptations" to be
held in La Fouly (Valais, Switzerland) on June 17-20,
2015.
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together
experimental, empirical and theoretical evolutionary bi-
ologists, all working to resolve fundamental questions
at the center of a century-old debate.
For example: What is the distribution of tness eects
of new, segregating, and xed mutations? What is the
relative importance of adaptation vs. genetic drift in the
evolution of natural populations? What are the genetic
and genomic bases of adaptations and speciation(s)?
By combining expertise across wet and dry lab biology,
and due to the progress of new genomic technologies, it
is becoming increasing possible to gain traction on these
questions which are fundamental to any basic under-
standing of the very mode and tempo of the evolutionary
process.
The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld with graduate students and junior researchers in La
Fouly, a remote and beautiful location in the Swiss Alps
(see www.lafouly.net), allowing for close interactions and
vivid exchanges due to the very limited number of par-
ticipants (max. 35). The scientic program will consist
in 2 1/2 days of a mixture of talks by invited speakers
and students, and poster sessions. The workshop will
end with a hike to some nearby magnicent view points
over the Mont Dolent and Mont-Blanc region.
Conrmed invited speakers:
Prof. Peter Andolfatto, Princeton University (US) Prof.
Joachim Hermisson, University of Vienna (AT) Dr. Fe-
licity Jones, Friedrich Miescher Laboratory of the Max
Planck Society, T ubigen (DE) Prof. Hanna Kokko, Uni-
versity of Zurich (CH) Prof. Bret Payseur, University
of Wisconsin (US) Prof. Ole Seehausen, University of
Bern & EAWAG (CH) Prof. Olivier Tenaillon, Institut
national de la sant e et de la recherche m edicale, Paris(FR)
Cost:
400 CHF, including conference fees, all meals and ac-
commodation (with sleeping bags). Free attendance for
CUSO students.
Web site and registration:
http://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=3D1128&id=3D2243
The organizers:
Laurent Excoer Je Jensen Stephan Peischl Claudia
Bank
Dr. Claudia Bank School of Life Sciences ~Acole Poly-
technique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland
and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics
Email: claudia.bank@ep.ch Webpage: http:/-
/people.ep.ch/claudia.bank Jensen lab: http://-
jensenlab.ep.ch klaudiebank@gmail.com
UAzores EvolutionMicroorganisms
Aug31-Sep5
Dear EvolDir community,
The Deep Carbon Observatory (DCO) is an interna-
tional, multidisciplinary initiative aimed at exploring all
aspect of carbon science. The Deep Carbon Observatory
is trying to integrate dierent aspect of carbon science
from all disciplines (including evolutionary biologist),
and one of the main interest is to integrate knowledge
trough time (in the evolutionary sense). Relevant ques-
tions are linked to the evolution of microorganisms and
their metabolism, the origin of life and the co-evolution
of biosphere with the geosphere.
The Deep Carbon Observatory is hosting its second
Early Career Scientist Workshop at the Centro De Vul-
canologia e Avalia c~ ao de Riscos Geol ogicos ( http:/-
/www.cvarg.azores.gov.pt/), University of the Azores,
S~ ao Miguel (Portugal), 31 August-5 September 2015.
This workshop will bring together the next generation
of researchers active in deep carbon studies from around
the world. This relatively small workshop ( ~40 scien-
tists) of early career researchers will continue to foster
collaboration and community within the growing DCO
Science Network. This workshop is funded by the Deep
Carbon Observatory, and aims to support nancially as
many participants as possible. There is no registration
fee for this workshop (accommodation and meals willApril 1, 2015 EvolDir 129
be provided), and successful applicants will be eligible
for up to 100% reimbursement of travel costs.
Applications are encouraged from senior graduate stu-
dents, postdoctoral researchers, fellows, and newly ap-
pointed assistant professors working on all aspect of
carbon science (visit the DCO website for major details,
https://deepcarbon.net//).
More informations on the workshop and the ap-
plication procedure are available at this link
https://deepcarbon.net/feature/second-dco-early-
career-scientist-workshop#.VOZv2DVMekA Deadline
for the application is May 1, 2015.
Please pass this message along to those that may be
interested.
Donato Giovannelli, PI Second DCO Early Career Sci-
entist Workshop [image: Immagine in linea 1]
Donato Giovannelli, PhD
a: Department of Marine and Coastal Science - IMCS
Rutgers University 71 Dudley Rd, suite 208 08901 New
Brunswick, NJ - USA
*Follow me on Twitter @d giovannelli <https://-
twitter.com/d giovannelli >*
T: (+1) 848-932-3378 e: giovannelli@marine.rutgers.edu
d.giovannelli@an.ismar.cnr.it http://-
marine.rutgers.edu/deep-seamicrobiology/-
Skype: Given95 Google Scholar Prole
http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
3DeYxwQpkAAAAJ&hl=3Den giovan-
nelli@marine.rutgers.edu
UBonn CrypticSpeciation Jun5-6
Graduate Meeting of the Zoological Systematics group
of the German Zoological Society
June 5th to 6th 2015
Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Ecology of the
University of Bonn, Germany
To whom it may concern,
On behalf of the Zoological Systematics group of the
German Zoological Society Thomas Bartolomaeus and
Torsten Struck invite you to participate at the grad-
uate meeting at the Institute of Evolutionary Biology
and Ecology of the University of Bonn. The topic of
the meeting are the challenges that cryptic speciationposes to taxonomic, evolutionary biological and ecologi-
cal research. The invited speakers will speak about the
specic requirements to taxonomically describe cryp-
tic species, the foundations and problems of automatic
species delineation, the pros and cons of dierent marker
systems with respect to cryptic species and the impact
of cryptic species on ecological and evolutionary biologi-
cal studies. For more detailed informations see the yer
of the meeting (link to the yer is below). Besides the
invited speakers there is plenty of time and opportunity
to present the own research as a presentation and poster
as well as for discussion.
Please register inclusive an abstract for pre-
sentations or posters till May 8th 2015 by
E-Mail to: graduate.meeting.2015@annelida.de
<mailto:graduate.meeting.2015@annelida.de > Best
wishes by the speakers of the Systematics group,
Sven Bradler & Torsten Struck
Flyer with Information about graduate meeting:
http://www.dzg-ev.de/de/veranstaltungen/2015/-
graduiertenftreen zoolsyst2015.pdf
Torsten Struck <torsten.struck.zfmk@uni-bonn.de >
UBremen EvolutionStatisticsUsingR
*BRESSS V BRemen Ecological Statistics Summer
School 2015*
*Date: June 02 V 05, 2015*
*Place: University of Bremen, Germany*
Application deadline: 17th of April, 2015
Data obtained in research in ecology and evolution are
often not normally distributed. Within the workshop
we will use the unifying concept of generalized linear
models (GLM) to deal with such data. Besides short
lectures, exercises will be oered using the open source
software R.
*For further information please visit our website: *
*https://sites.google.com/site/statisticsbremen/* Top-
ics covered: Linear Models, Generalized Linear Mod-
els (Poisson, Negative binomial, Gamma and Binomial
distribution), Zero-inated/-truncated Models, General-
ized Linear Mixed Models
Thanks to the funding of the *Deutsche Zoologische
Gesellschaft*, registration is free for all DZG members
(The course fee for non-members is 20 $ a/50$ a for PhD130 EvolDir April 1, 2015
students/PostDocs).
We hope to welcome you soon in Bremen!
The organizing committee,
Katharina Merkel, Mareike Koppik and Thomas
Homeister
Statistics Bremen <statisticworkshopbremen@gmail.com >
UExeter EvolutionaryBehaviour
Jul6-9
Omics for evolutionary/behavioral ecologists Reply-To:
DJ Hosken <D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk >X-Mailer: Ap-
ple Mail (2.1510)
The University of Exeter's Cornwall Summer Science
Institute is open for this years registration. This years
Summer School will be held from July 6th to 9th 2015. It
is primarily directed at students of behavioural and evo-
lutionary ecology and will provide guidance and training
in the implementation of:
multivariate phenotypes (phenomics); transcriptomics;
and genomics) into their work.
World-leading researchers from within and outside the
Centre will attend; sharing their expertise to provide
training and networking opportunities. Talks covering
cutting-edge techniques and innovative science are in-
tended to be pedagogical, and will be interspersed with
workshop style sessions on problem solving, publishing
and grant writing.
See: http://www.exeter.ac.uk/summerscience/about/
CSSI events are held at the Centre for Ecology and
Conservation. The Centre hosts unrivalled strength
in depth of organismal biologists working in a friendly
and collegiate environment. Delegates interested in dis-
cussing their research with particular CEC members
while visiting are strongly encouraged to make contact
prior to the workshop. The Summer School is hosted
by the University of Exeter, Cornwall (UK).
Prof DJ Hosken University of Exeter, Cornwall
Tremough, Penryn TR10 9FE UK
01326 371843 D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk http://-
biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/sta/index.php?web id=-
david hosken DJ Hosken <D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk >UMaryland Bioinformatics
The Institute for Genome Sciences (IGS) is an interna-
tionally known research center located at the University
of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore. IGS oers
ve dierent workshops as part of a professional devel-
opment program organized by Dr. Michelle Giglio, a
faculty member at IGS with over 17 years of experience
in genomics and bioinformatics. Dr. Giglio has recruited
IGS faculty and sta to form a highly experienced in-
struction team to provide workshop participants with
the knowledge and skills needed to engage in numerous
`omics applications. All IGS workshops are hands-on,
providing attendees with real-world challenges and ex-
perience.
Please see our workshop dates listed below.
IMPORTANT DATES:
Metagenome Analysis October 13th - 16th, 2015 Intro-
duction to Programming for Bioinformatics March 16th
- 20th, 2015
Transcriptome Analysis May 18th - 20th, 2015
Prokaryotic Comparative Genomics September 29th -
October 1st, 2015
Introduction to Genomics and Bioinformatics November
2nd - 6th, 2015
FOR MORE INFORMATION & REGISTRATION:
www.igs.umaryland.edu/workshops EMAIL: Renee
Nathaniel Workshop Administrative Coordinator
rnathaniel@som.umaryland.edu
\Nathaniel, Renee" <rnathaniel@som.umaryland.edu >
UMichigan EvolutionFieldCourses
We invite undergraduate and graduate students inter-
ested in ecological research and hands-on study of the
natural world to take our Spring and Summer 2015 eld
classes at the University of Michigan Biological Station.
You will join a community of researchers on the shores
of Douglas Lake near Pellston, Michigan.
Spring classes are 2-4 weeks long (2-5 credits) and in-April 1, 2015 EvolDir 131
clude Great Lakes Oceanography, Biology of Birds and
Ethnobotany.
Summer classes are 8 weeks long and feature organismal-
(Biology of Insects, Biology of Fishes, Algae) and
ecosystem- (Rivers, Lakes and Wetlands, Limnology,
Field Botany and Forest Ecosystems) focused classes as
well as Ecology, Evolution and Behavioral Ecology.
We have rolling course admissions, but the DEADLINE
for priority consideration for our FINANCIAL AID is
March 16, 2015.
More information available at: http://lsa.umich.edu/-
umbs . farmeral@umich.edu
UMichigan Evolution May24-Aug22
Course Announcement: Natural History and Evolution
The University of Michigan Biological Station (UMBS)
oers a diverse set of courses in both a four-week spring
term (May 24 to June 20) and an eight-week summer
term (June 27 to August 22). One of the summer
courses is a eld course in evolutionary biology (EEB
390, Natural History and Evolution). This course is
intended for undergraduate biology majors or rst-year
graduate students who want a strong foundation in evo-
lutionary biology and exposure to methods of studying
evolution in the eld. The class meets all day twice
a week, Tuesdays and Fridays. Mornings include lec-
tures and afternoons are devoted to eldwork either for
demonstration or for individual research projects. Lec-
ture topics include all aspects of evolution, from theory,
molecular evolution, and phylogenetics to aspects of
evolutionary biology that are amenable to observation
in the eld, including speciation, coevolution, sexual se-
lection, sex ratio, and social behavior. Students conduct
independent projects, which in the past have focused
on plants, craysh, aquatic invertebrates, damselies
and dragonies, and birds. Numerous eld trips will
be taken to study the biological diversity of northern
Michigan and to understand the importance of human
modications of the environment. Northern Michigan
is a fabulous place to spend the summer and there are
many opportunities for outdoor activities when not in
the classroom.
Application material and other details can be found
at the station's web site (http://www.lsa.umich.edu/-
umbs/). Students attending taking courses during the
summer term typically take two courses, and detailsof the other courses being oered are available at the
web site above. Need and merit-based nancial aid is
available.
For more information please contact: Stephen Pruett-
Jones (pruett-jones@uchicago.edu) or the UMBS oce
(umbs@umich.edu)
aspj@uchicago.edu
UNewHampshire
BioinformaticsForUndergrads
Jul27-30
Dear Colleagues,
I wanted to bring your attention to the following
summer workshop opportunity for undergraduate
students - *accepted students will be fully funded
to attend the workshop*, courtesy of an NSF Re-
search Coordination Network award. Application
deadline is April 13th, and full details can be
found here: https://eukhits.wordpress.com/2015/-
03/02/applications-now-open-for-the-summer-2015-
bioinformatics-biodiversity-undergraduate-workshop/
*'Bioinformatics & Biodiversity' Undergraduate
Workshop* *July 27-30, 2015* *University of New
Hampshire, Durham, NH*
Microscopic eukaryotes (meiofauna e.g. nematode
worms, copepods, protists, fungi, etc.) are some of
the most abundant animals on Earth, but species within
these groups are often overlooked by the general public
and even many biologists. This NSF-sponsored work-
shop will explore the eld of environmental DNA se-
quencing, including collection and analysis of data. Stu-
dents will learn how high-throughput approaches (rRNA
gene surveys, metagenomics) are being used to investi-
gate the biodiversity of microbial eukaryotes and deepen
our knowledge of ecosystem function. The workshop
program will be a combination of lectures and practical
exercises, where students will learn about traditional
taxonomic approaches and also gain experience using
the command line and bioinformatics tools to analyze
environmental DNA datasets.
For more information please contact Holly Bik
(holly.bik@gmail.com)
holly.bik@gmail.com132 EvolDir April 1, 2015
UWestIndies Trinidad
ViralEvolution Aug9-14
'20th International Bioinformatics Workshop on Virus
Evolution and Molecular Epidemiology\
The University of the West Indies (UWI), St. Augustine
Campus, Trinidad and Tobago
Sunday, August 9 - Friday, August 14, 2015
Dear colleague,
We are announcing the organization of the international
workshop on Virus Evolution and Molecular Epidemiol-
ogy (VEME) in 2015, hosted by the University of the
West Indies (UWI), St. Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago
on behalf of our main sponsor the International Com-
mittee for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. The
workshop is co-organised by the University of Leuven
(Belgium) and the J. Craig Venter Institute (USA).
We plan to organize a 'Phylogenetic Inference' module
that oers the theoretical background and hands-on
experience in phylogenetic analysis for those who have
little or no prior expertise in sequence analysis. An
'Evolutionary Hypothesis Testing' is targeted to partici-
pants who are well familiar with alignments and phylo-
genetic trees, and would like to extend their expertise to
likelihood and Bayesian inference in phylogenetics, coa-
lescent and phylogeographic analyses ('phylodynamics')
and molecular adaptation. A 'Large Dataset Analysis'
module will cover the more complex analysis of full
genomes, huge datasets of pathogens including Next
Generation Sequencing data, and combined analyses of
pathogen and host. Practical sessions in these modules
will involve software like, PHYLIP, PAUP*, PHYML,
MEGA, PAML or HYPHY, TREE-PUZZLE, SplitsTree,
BEAST, MrBayes Simplot and RDP3.
We recommend participants to buy The Phylogenetic
Handbook <http://www.thephylogenetichandbook.org
>as a guide during the workshop, and to bring their
own data set.
The abstract and application deadline is March 15th
Selections will be made by the beginning of May.
The registration fee of 850 Euro covers attendance,
lunches and coee breaks. Participation is limited to
30 scientists in each module and is dependent on a se-
lection procedure based on the submitted abstract andstatement of motivation. A limited number of grants
are available for scientists who experience diculties to
attend because of nancial reasons.
Selection criteria: (in order of importance)
1. Quality of the abstract: abstracts will be reviewed
and priority will be given to applicants who are rst
author on the abstract. 2. Letter of motivation: how
urgent/important is your need for training? 3. Each
module is preferably restricted to 1 participant from the
same lab. 4. Priority will be given to participants from
countries with limited resources.
Grant criteria: (in order of importance)
1. Priority to countries with limited resources. 2. Rank-
ing according to the abstract quality.
Additional information and application forms are avail-
able on our website: http://www.rega.kuleuven.be/cev/-
veme-workshop/2015 We are condent that this course
meets the needs of many molecular virologists and epi-
demiologists, and hope we can assist you in your search
for training in Bioinformatics methods.
Yours sincerely,
Christine Carrington, Karen Nelson and Annemie
Vandamme Organizers of the workshop Contact:
veme2015@sta.uwi.edu
"Foley, Brian Thomas\ <btf@lanl.gov >
UWestIndies VirusEvolution
Aug9-14
20th International Bioinformatics Workshop on Virus
Evolution & Molecular Epidemiology (VEME)
Dates: 9th - 14th August 2015
Venue: University of the West Indies, Trinidad and
Tobago
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS IS EXTENDED
TO 31 MARCH 2015
The International Bioinformatics Workshop on VEME
workshop is recognized as one of the best international
virus bioinformatics courses in the world and has so far
been organized in Belgium, Brazil, Finland, Greece, Por-
tugal, the USA, South Africa, The Netherlands, Serbia
and Italy. The 20th edition will be held from 9 - 14
August 2015 at the University of the West Indies in the
Caribbean island of Trinidad and Tobago.April 1, 2015 EvolDir 133
The workshop will provide 90 participants with intensive
training in the mathematical principles and computer
applications used in the study virus evolution and for
conducting detailed molecular epidemiological investiga-
tions. The workshop will include lectures and computer
practical session where students will have the opportu-
nity to analyse their own research data. Each student
will also present a poster about their research.
The target group are trainee scientists starting their
scientic career, i.e. graduate research student, post-
doctoral researchers and specialised research technicians
(bio informaticians). The workshop teachers will be 24
world-renowned researchers from top international uni-
versities and research institutions. Interaction among
participants and teaching sta is a key element, so the
ratio of teachers to students will be maintained at no
less than 1:4. A limited number of scholarships will be
provided. There is no country restriction to attend, but
scholarships are restricted to resource limited countries.
Participants will have the opportunity to attend one of
the three 4-day modules and their choice of two of the
6 half-day modules:
Three 4-day modules
- 'Phylogenetic Inference' oers the theoretical back-
ground and hands-on experience in phylogenetic anal-
ysis for those who have little or no prior expertise in
sequence analysis
- 'Evolutionary Hypothesis Testing' is targeted to partic-
ipants who are well familiar with alignments and phylo-
genetic trees and would like to extend their expertise to
likelihood and Bayesian inference in phylogenetics, coa-
lescent and phylogeographic analyses ('phylodynamics')
- 'Large Dataset Analysis' will cover the more complex
analysis of full genomes, huge datasets of pathogens
including Next Generation Sequencing data, and com-
bined analyses of pathogen and host.
Six 1/2-day modules:
- Morning - ^ aLarge Phylogenies', ^ aTransmission Chain
Investigation' and ^ aMolecular Adaptation'
- Afternoon - ^ aVisualization of Large Phylogenies with
Metadata', ^ aRecombination and Networks' and ^ aVirus
Analysis Tools'
Practical sessions in these modules will involve various
software packages, including PHYLIP, PAUP*, PHYML,
MEGA, PAML or HYPHY, TREE-PUZZLE, SplitsTree,
BEAST, MrBayes, Simplot, RDP3, QuRE.
Detailed information and online applications may
be accessed at: http://rega.kuleuven.be/cev/veme-
workshop/2015 OR http://www.icgeb.org/trinidad-and-tobago-veme-bioinformatics-2015.html The University
of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland,
with registration number SC005336.
a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk
UYork EvolutionOfEvolution Jul24
CALL FOR PAPERS/ABSTRACTS
EvoEvo workshop
Satellite workshop of the 13th European Conference on
Articial Life (ECAL 2015)
Friday July 24th 2015, University of York, York, UK
Variation and Selection are the two core processes of
Darwinian Evolution. Yet, both are directly regulated
by many processes that are themselves products of evo-
lution (e.g. DNA repair, mutator genes, transposable
elements, horizontal transfer, stochasticity of gene ex-
pression, sex, network modularity, niche construction...).
This results in the ability of evolution to self-modify
its operators, hence its dynamics. We call this process
\Evolution of Evolution" or EvoEvo. Dierent EvoEvo
strategies have been proposed in the literature, including
regulation of variability, robustness/evolvability strate-
gies, bet-hedging... However, most of these strategies
are poorly characterized and the conditions under which
they evolve as well as their consequences are generally
unknown.
The aim of the EvoEvo workshop is to seek for a unied
theory of Evolution of Evolution by studying its biologi-
cal mechanisms, evolutionary consequences and possible
applications to bioinspired computation. The workshop
will take place as a satellite workshop of ECAL 2015:
the 13th European Conference on Articial Life (http:/-
/ecal2015.alife.org), University of York, York, UK. The
EvoEvo workshop is an initiative of the EvoEvo con-
sortium (http://www.evoevo.eu) funded by the FP7
EU-FET grant EvoEvo (ICT-610427).
AREAS OF INTEREST
We are seeking submissions that explore all aspects of
\Evolution of Evolution", including theoretical and ex-
perimental works (including in vivo, in vitro and in silico
experiment). Topics include but are not limited to:
- Evolution of robustness and evolvability, evolution of
pleiotropy - Evolution of mutation rates, regulation of
variability, mutators, transposable elements, chromoso-
mal rearrangements - Open-ended evolution - Evolution134 EvolDir April 1, 2015
of the genotype-to-phenotype mapping - Niche construc-
tion, evolution of trophic networks, evolution of coop-
eration - Evolution of genes and metabolic networks,
evolution of modularity - Evolution of stochastic gene
expression and bet-hedging - Modeling and simulation
of EvoEvo, EvoEvo and tness landscapes/seascapes -
Experimental characterization of EvoEvo - Application
of EvoEvo to evolutionary computation - Philosophical,
theoretical and practical aspects of EvoEvo
SUBMISSIONS
EvoEvo will accept full papers (10-15 pages) and ex-
tended abstracts (up to 3 pages). All submissions (either
full papers and abstracts) will be peer reviewed, and
accepted full papers and abstracts will appear in the
workshop proceedings. Accepted papers will be selected
for long or short oral presentation during the workshop.
- Full papers submission of 10 to 15 pages of Lecture
Notes in Computer Sciences (LNCS) format. Full papers
must present original researches. - Abstract submission
will be less than 3 pages of LNCS format. Abstract may
present work-in-progress or already published results.
Papers should be submitted via EasyChair (https://-
easychair.org/conferences/?conf=evoevo2015).
LNCS formatting details can be found at <http://-
www.springer.com/computer/lncs?SGWID=0-164-7-
72376-0 >.
IMPORTANT DATES
- Paper Submission: 24 April 2014 - Notication of ac-
ceptance: 15 May 2014 - Camera-ready copies: 29 May
2014 - EvoEvo Workshop: 24 July 2014
WORKSHOP CHAIRS
- Guillaume Beslon, INSA, Universit e de Lyon (FR),
LIRIS/Beagle team - Santiago Elena, CSIC and Poly-
technic University of Valencia (SP), IBMCP - Paulien
Hogeweg, Utrecht University (NL), Bioinformatics group
- Dominique Schneider, Universit e Joseph Fourier,
Grenoble (FR), LAPM - Susan Stepney, University of
York (UK), Centre for Complex Systems Analysis
Prof. Santiago F. Elena Evolutionary Systems Vi-
rology Group IBMCP (CSIC-UPV) Campus UPV,
CPI 8E, lab. 2.04 Ingeniero Fausto Elio s/n,
46022 Valencia, Spain Phone: +34 963 877 895Fax: +34 963 877 859 E-mail: sfelena@ibmcp.upv.es
Web: http://bioxeon.ibmcp.upv.es/EvolSysVir The
Santa Fe Institute 1399 Hyde Park Road Santa Fe,
NM 87501 USA Web:www.santafe.edu/about/people/-
prole/Santiago%20F.%20Elena \Santiago F. Elena"
<sfelena@ibmcp.upv.es >
Venice EvoDevo Sep28-Oct1
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biology
Conceptual and Methodological Foundations
4th Edition: The Evolution of Developmental Processes
Venice, 28 September - 1 October 2015
Organizers: Alessandro Minelli, Gerd B. M uller and
Giuseppe Fusco School director: Johannes Jaeger
School sponsors: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti, Venice and Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution
and Cognition Research, Vienna. Location: Istituto
Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Palazzo Franchetti,
Venice
Taching panel: J. Jaeger (School Director, CRG
Barcelona), P. Beldade (Gulbenkian Institute, Lisbon),
G.E. Budd (University of Uppsala), G. Fusco (Univer-
sity of Padova), R. Jenner (Natural History Museum,
London), A. Khila (Institut de G enomique Fonctionnelle
de Lyon), A. McGregor (Oxford Brookes University),
A. Minelli (University of Padova), C. Mirth (Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ciencia, Oeiras, Portugal), G.B. M uller
(Konrad Lorenz Institute, Vienna, and University of
Vienna), A. Peel (University of Leeds)
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2015
For details, visit http://www.istitutoveneto.org/-
EDB2015/ Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biol-
ogy University of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-
35131 Padova Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax
+39.049.827.6230 e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it web-
page http://dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >April 1, 2015 EvolDir 135
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.