E v o l D i r
April 1, 2022
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .124
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1382 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Conferences
Asilomar California ForestGenetics Jun14-16 . . . . . . . 2
Bainbridge Washington SelshEvolution Jul24-27 . . . 2
Bilbao Spain AppliedHologenomics Sep13-15 . . . . . . . 3
Blossin Germany EvolutionEcolImmunity Sep7-11 . . 4
CIGENE HumanGut Apr6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Cleveland Online Evolution Jun21-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Groningen BehavBiol Jul20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Helsinki InsectDiseaseEvolution Jul17-22 . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Krakw Tardigrada Aug22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Madison Wisconsin Bioinformatics Jul13-14 . . . . . . . . 6
McMasterU Canada EvolutionCaenorhabditis Jun20-23
7
Naples EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3 AbstractDeadline 8
NHM London EvolutionOfDeuterostomes May12 . . . 8
Online AlaskaNatHistory May24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Online CIGENE Mar39 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Online CIGENE SexualSelection Mar16 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9PennsylvaniaStateU EvolMicrobiomes May31-Jun3 10
Prague CombinatorialRapidSpeciation Aug14-19 . . 10
Prague EvolutionOfSenescence Aug14-19 . . . . . . . . . . 11
Prague omicsApproaches Aug13-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Prague PhenotypicPlasticity Aug14-19 CallForAbstracts
12
Prague PlantEvolution Sep20-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Prague PredatorCognitionPreyDefences Aug14-19 . 13
QuebecCity EvolutionFungalPathogens May25-26 . 14
Switzerland MathComputationalEvol Jun26-30 . . . . 15
UCalifornia SanDiego RECOMB-CG May20-21 Call-
ForPosters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UKansas Genomics May20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun9-11 . . . . . . . . 16
Wellcome VirusGenomicsEvolution Nov9-11 . . . . . . . 16
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis May13-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Asilomar California ForestGenetics
Jun14-16
We are pleased to announce that the inaugural meeting
of the North American Forest Genetics Society (NAFGS)
will be held on June 14-16, 2022 at the Asilomar Con-
ference Grounds, Pacic Grove, California. (https://-
treegenesdb.org/nafgsconference). We had to delay the
inaugural meeting by two years due to the pandemic.
The inaugural meeting of the NAFGS is designed to
be primarily a strategic session to develop the mission,
goals, and functional capacities of the NAFGS,as well
as invited and short contributed talks. In this way,
the NAFGS will be dierent from the long-standing
meetings in North America for the discipline of Forest
Genetics (Southern Forest Tree Improvement Confer-
ence, Western Forest Genetics Association, Canadian
Forest Genetics Association).
The leadership of the NAFGS encourages your partici-
pation in this inaugural meeting by bringing your ideas
and priorities to the development of the rst profes-
sional society in North America for the discipline ofForest Genetics. We have chosen the Asilomar Confer-
ence Grounds near San Francisco as the venue for this
event as the beautiful setting and intimacy of the venue
greatly facilitates collegial interactions and creativity.
We sincerely hope to see you at Asilomar in June.
David Neale, President Fikret Isik, Vice President
Nathalie Isabel, Secretary Jill Wegrzyn, Treasurer
\Wegrzyn, Jill" <jill.wegrzyn@uconn.edu >
Bainbridge Washington
SelshEvolution Jul24-27
AGA2022 President's Symposium ?>` Selsh Evolution:
Mechanisms & Consequences of Genetic Conict
https://www.theaga.org/agatwentytwentytwo Presi-
dent Lila Fishman will hold the 2022 Symposium July
24-27, 2022, at the beautiful IslandWood <https://-
islandwood.org/outdoor-meeting-and-retreat-venue/ >
campus on Bainbridge Island near Seattle, Washing-
ton (with virtual options for speakers and attendees).
The Symposium will include the Key Lecture plus twoApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 3
days of invited talks, panels, and poster sessions on
topics spanning the eld of genetic conict and selsh
evolution.
Featured topics include:
- Chromosomal drive
- Spore and gamete killers
- Cyto-nuclear conict
- Genetic conicts over ospring
- Gene drive and its applications
AGA Symposia are small meetings that provide excel-
lent opportunities for cross-stage interaction, and the
American Genetic Association is committed to support-
ing early-stage attendees. Students and postdocs who
register and submit an abstract before June 1st will
receive free registration.
Invited speakers to date include:
Yaniv Brandvain
Justin Havird
Sarah Zanders
Amanda Larracuente
Daven Presgraves
Hanna Johannessen
Anna Lindholm
Polly Campbell
Jenn Coughlan (postdoc)
Kelly Dawe
Omar Akbari
Islandwood is a non-prot environmental education orga-
nization that provides a welcoming space for conferences
and special events at its 250-acre campus. There are
meadows, forests, and ponds, nature walks and outdoor
activities, delicious and plentiful shared meals, and spa-
cious light-lled meeting rooms and sleeping lodges. We
will have the whole campus to enjoy for our symposium
registrants and their guests.
Visit the website https://www.theaga.org/-
agatwentytwentytwo or contact Lila Fishman
lila.shman@umontana.edu for more details.
theaga@theaga.orgBilbao Spain AppliedHologenomics
Sep13-15
We are delighted to announce the 1st Applied Hologe-
nomics Conference, to be held at the Palacio Euskalduna,
Bilbao, Spain, from 13-15th September 2022. The con-
ference is coordinated by the University of the Basque
Country, and is nancially supported by the 'Holofood'
European Union RIA Award 817729 (www.holofood.eu).
Thus attendance to the conference itself is free. Our
partners at EMBL-EBI will oer a training course on
the 2 days prior to the conference in applied multiomic
data analysis (to be advertised soon).
Understanding host-microbiota interactions is increas-
ingly recognised as an essential step to improve the
ecacy and eciency of applied biological processes
within medicine, agriculture and nature conservation.
As such, the joint study of eukaryotic hosts and their
associated microbial communities using molecular tools,
namely hologenomics, holds the promise to contribute
towards addressing some of the global challenges in the
21st Century.
The objective of the 1st Applied HoloGenomics confer-
ence is therefore to highlight key discoveries and novel
approaches that aim at understanding the interactions
of plant and animal hosts with their associated micro-
bial communities, which could be directly or potentially
applied into management and practice.
In brief this conference will aim to cover these three key
questions:
* What are the current uses of hologenomics? * What
societal and industrial needs of the 21st century could be
addressed through hologenomic approaches? * How can
hologenomics be used to link basic and applied research
questions?
We have an excellent set of keynote speakers lined up,
including Seth and Sarah Bordenstein (Vanderbilt Uni-
versity), Lone Gram (Danish Technical University), Phil
Pope (NMBU, Norway), Rob Dunn (North Carolina
State University), Christina Warinner (Harvard Univer-
sity), Ana Pombo (Max Delbr uck Centre for Molecular
Medicine) and Lars Hestbjerg Hansen (University of
Copenhagen).
For full details, please see the conference website:
https://appliedhologenomicsconference.eu/ Abstract4 EvolDir April 1, 2022
deadline is 1st May 2022, registration deadline is 15th
June 2022.
We hope evoldir readers with an interest in hosts, mi-
crobiomes, and integrating the two to solve future basic
and applied challenges will consider attending.
On behalf of the Holofood consortium,
Tom Gilbert Director, Center for Evolutionary Hologe-
nomics (ceh.ku.dk) University of Copenhagen
Tom Gilbert <tgilbert@sund.ku.dk >
Blossin Germany
EvolutionEcolImmunity Sep7-11
Ecological immunology workshop 2022: resistance, tol-
erance & symbionts, 7-11 September
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION IS NOW OPEN for the
above meeting, to be held at Blossin, close to Berlin,
Germany. Abstract submission will be open until the
25th March:
https://ssl2.cms.fu-berlin.de/bcp/en/biologie/-
arbeitsgruppen/zoologie/ag rol/Ecological-
Immunology-Workshop-2022/PM Registration/-
index.html ^ a eThe meeting is the next installment in a
loose series of workshops on ecological & evolutionary
immunology / insect immunity, that started in 2001 in
Sheeld, the most recent meeting being held online in
2020. These meetings bring together researchers with
dierent backgrounds but with a shared interest in
immunity and host-microbe interactions, and where we
encourage the presentation of unpublished results.
The hallmark of these workshops is the open atmo-
sphere, fostering free exchange by keeping it an aord-
able, small meeting ( ~85 participants). The format
consists of invited speakers, contributed talks and a
dedicated poster session. Long breaks provide plenty
of opportunity for informal exchange. Past workshops
have initiated new collaborations and ideas focusing
on frontier research. ^ a eThe premises are basic but
in a beautiful location conducive to the success of the
meeting. We will be located at a lakeside, which oers
great swimming and canoeing, and a small bar on the
lakeside. ^ a eOur invited speakers are: Nicholas Bu-
chon (Cornell University, USA) Delphine Destoumieux-
Garzon (University of Montpellier, France) Laura Fl orez
(University of Copenhagen, Denmark) Brian Lazzaro
(Cornell University, USA) Bruno Lemaitre (EPFL Lau-sanne, Switzerland) Jessica Metcalf (Princeton Univer-
sity, USA) Charlotte Rafaluk-Mohr (Freie Universit at
Berlin, Germany) Roland Regoes (ETH Z urich, Switzer-
land) Paul Schmid-Hempel (ETH Z urich, Switzerland)
Mike Strand (University of Georgia, USA) Yuko Ulrich
(Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology, Jena, Ger-
many) Pedro Vale (University of Edinburgh, UK) Heiko
Vogel (Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology, Jena,
Germany) Bregje Wertheim (Groningen University, The
Netherlands) Anna Zaidman-R emy (Insitute National
de Sciences Appliqu ees, Lyon, France) ^ a e
Important dates:^ a e25th March - Abstract submission
deadline 31st March - Decisions on abstracts 14th April -
Registration deadline and payment of fees ^ a eCosts: In-
cludes registration fee, accommodation, and food. e300
Student e350 Non-student
Stipends: We are excited to be able to oer ve
stipends to female PhD students or post-docs present-
ing either a poster or a talk at the workshop, and
who are working in countries classied by the OECD
as low or middle income (https://www.oecd.org/-
dac/nancing-sustainable-development/development-
nance-standards/daclist.htm). Each stipend will
be for up to 1000 EUR. More details are given on
our homepage: https://www.bcp.fu-berlin.de/en/-
biologie/arbeitsgruppen/zoologie/ag rol/Ecological-
Immunology-Workshop-2022/Stipends/index.html
Please circulate this advert amongst your colleagues.
We look forward to receiving your abstracts!
Best wishes from the organisers,^ a e
Sophie Armitage, Maryam Keshavarz, Luisa Linke, Lea
Otte, Jens Rol & Caroline Zanchi Freie Universit at
Berlin
We are grateful for funding from the German Research
Foundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG)
through FOR 5026) for this workshop.
Sophie Armitage
Heisenberg Fellow Freie Universit at Berlin Insti-
tute of Biology K onigin-Luise-Str. 1-3 14195
Berlin https://armitagelab.com/ Sophie Armitage
<saoarmitage@zedat.fu-berlin.de >Sophie Armitage
<saoarmitage@zedat.fu-berlin.de >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 5
CIGENE HumanGut Apr6
Hi all!
The next seminar is in just one week and we are thrilled
to present our internal speaker; Dr. Sabina Leanti La
Rosa, researcher at NMBU, who will present:
Decrypting the mechanism for xanthan gum process-
ing by human gut bacteria through multi-omics and
enzymology
Abstract: Microbial communities and their enzymes
process many of the \typical" dietary nutrients acces-
sible in the human gastrointestinal tract and play an
essential role in host health and nutrition. Eating habits
of industrialized countries and gluten-free diets reect
an increasing consumption of processed foods, hence
concomitant increased intakes of \atypical" nutrients
such as food additives. While often believed to be
inert, little is known about the interactions of food ad-
ditives with the human gut microbiota and their fate
in the gut. In this talk, I will present results showing
that the human gut microbiota can process xanthan
gum, a common food additive used in bakery prod-
ucts, beverages and in gluten-free foods. Metagenomic
and metatranscriptomic analyses revealed the presence
of a common uncultured Ruminococcaceae genus (R.
UCG13) equipped with a gene cluster responsive to xan-
than gum. Detailed biochemical studies supported a
model whereby extracellular hydrolysis of xanthan gum
generates oligosaccharides that are subsequently depoly-
merized to monosaccharides by a cocktail of intracellular
enzymes. In some cases, oligosaccharides produced by
the primary degrader R. UCG13 also cross-feed other
bacterial populations equipped with their own specic
catabolic pathway. A survey of 2441 public human gut
metagenomes revealed the broad, diet-specic, distribu-
tion of these xanthan utilization loci across the world.
Overall, we show that this food additive is not inert
and has driven the evolution of interlinked trophic rela-
tionships between at least two populations within the
human gut microbiota, an adaptation that reects the
incorporation of xanthan gum into human diets in the
past 50 years.
Time: Wednesday, April 6th, 12-13 CET Place: This will
be an online seminar: Click here for access to the Zoom
seminar. <https://nmbu.zoom.us/j/67064421833 >
For more information, check out the seminar web-site: https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ Marie
SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investigator,
Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Cleveland Online Evolution
Jun21-28
Registration is now open for EVOLUTION 2022, the
joint annual meeting of the ASN, SSB, and SSE.
Evolution 2022 is hybrid: June 21 & 22: virtual confer-
ence June 24-28: in-person in Cleveland, OH
For ALL the details and to register: http://-
www.evolutionmeetings.org Highlights * Talk & poster
submission are available once you complete main regis-
tration. * Talk sign-up is rst-come, rst-served, with
submissions accepted until all slots ll or until May 15,
WHICHEVER IS EARLIER. * All posters are accepted
until June 1. * Hotel accommodations are open for book-
ing; dorms coming soon. * Conference-ending Super
social will be a private event at the Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame * Early registration discount ends May 1 * There
are several participation/travel support programs; de-
tails online * Those hoping to compete for the SSB Mayr
or SSE Hamilton awards should pay careful attention
to instructions: https://www.evolutionmeetings.org/-
student-awards.html * You must be vaccinated and
follow our covid health policies to attend the in-person
meeting: https://www.evolutionmeetings.org/covid-19-
information.html * Plans are in place for free on-site
daycare ; nal decision in mid- Apr. ahead of early
registration deadline
Howard Rundle <hrundle@uottawa.ca >
Groningen BehavBiol Jul20-23
Dear colleagues, Registration is now open for the Euro-
pean Conference on Behavioural Biology, which will be
held in Groningen this summer (July 20-23): https:/-
/ecbb22.wordpress.com/ . After a long period of re-
stricted interactions, the theme of the conference is \All6 EvolDir April 1, 2022
of Life is social!". We explore the many facets of social
life, from proximate to ultimate mechanisms in a wide
variety of species. You can submit your contributions
(talks and posters) to one of the parallel symposia with
themes ranging from social foraging to animal welfare
and from cultural evolution to epidemiology - or to
one of the open symposia. For symposium informa-
tion, see https://ecbb22.wordpress.com/program-2/ .
Keynote speakers: David J. Anderson (California Insti-
tute of Technology), Nicola Clayton (University of Cam-
bridge), Audrey Dussutour (University Paul Sabatier),
Rose Thorogood (University of Helsinki), Peter Kap-
peler (University of G ottingen), Joel Levine (University
of Toronto, Mississauga), Franjo Weissing (University
of Groningen).
For more information see https://-
ecbb22.wordpress.com/ We hope to see you in
Groningen this summer!
The organizing committee Jean-Christophe Billeter, Ple-
unie Kraak, Martine Maan & Simon Verhulst
Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sci-
ences (GELIFES) https://www.rug.nl/research/gelifes/
m.e.maan@rug.nl
Helsinki InsectDiseaseEvolution
Jul17-22
This symposium is located in the eld of interactions
and communication between trophic level, in particular
the interaction of hosts and their parasites. Within the
framework of Insect Disease Evolution and vice versa the
Evolution of Host Resistance Mechanisms, we see this
symposium very well suited for evolutionary biologists.
|{
We would like to invite submissions to our symposium
addressing the eld of self-medication in social and
solitary insects. The symposium will be held during
the International Congress of Entomology (ICE 2022),
Helsinki, Finland, July 17-22, 2022.
Symposium: Self-medication in insects (organised by
Michael Lattor and Silvio Erler):
Insects show remarkable abilities to choose and balance
their diet. They are avoid the uptake of pathogens from
the environment with their food. When becoming in-
fected insects are able to shift their diet and use plant
derived chemicals to therapeutically heal themselves.Some insect species might even be able to use such
secondary plant products as prophylactic medication
to prevent any infection. There is the need to identify
common mechanisms across insect orders that promote
prophylactic or therapeutic self-medication.
Submissions through this link:
https://registration.contio./ice2022helsinki/-
Registration/Login?id=1 003-T 1003-10
Deadline for submission of abstracts: March 31, 2022.
More information about the conference: https://-
ice2020helsinki./ Dr. Michael Lattor and Dr. Silvio
Erler
\Erler, Silvio" <silvio.erler@julius-kuehn.de >
Krakw Tardigrada Aug22-26
15th International Symposium on Tardigrada j22-26
August 2022jKrak ow
This August, tardigrade researchers and enthusiasts
from all continents will come to the Royal City of
Krak ow to present and learn about the newest and un-
published discoveries concerning tardigrade taxonomy,
systematics, phylogeny, biogeography, ecology, evolu-
tion, behaviour, reproduction, development, anatomy,
physiology, astrobiology, molecular biology (all of the
\omics"), and to hear about potential medical applica-
tions of the remarkable tardigrade abilities to survive
extreme conditions.
Early Registration for the Symposium is now open!
All details at https://tardigrada.uj.edu.pl ukasz Michal-
czyk Chair of Tardigrada 2022 www.tardigrada.uj.edu.pl
krakow@tardigrada.net
Madison Wisconsin Bioinformatics
Jul13-14
Announcing BOSC 2022, the 23rd Bioinformatics Open
Source Conference
BOSC 2022 dates: July 13-14, as part of ISMB 2022
Location: Madison, WI, USA, and virtual Confer-
ence Website: https://www.open-bio.org/events/-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 7
bosc/ BOSC announcements mailing list: https://-
groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/bosc-announce
Slack channel: https://join.slack.com/t/obf-bosc/-
shared invite/zt-n5ur1gsj-z2C ~694lYTFPg5tbWA8Ew
Twitter: @OBF BOSC, #BOSC2022
Key Dates April 21, 2022: Deadline for submitting
talk/poster abstracts. Submit at https://www.open-
bio.org/events/bosc-2022/submit/ May 12: Talk/poster
acceptance notications May 19: Late poster (and Late-
Breaking Lightning Talk) submission deadline May 26:
Late poster / LBLT acceptance notications July 13-14:
BOSC 2022. July 15-16: CollaborationFest (CoFest)
About BOSC The Bioinformatics Open Source Confer-
ence promotes and facilitates the open source develop-
ment of bioinformatics tools and open science. Since
2000, BOSC has provided a forum for developers and
users to interact and share research results and ideas in
open source bioinformatics and open science. BOSC's
broad spectrum of topics includes practical techniques
for solving bioinformatics problems; software develop-
ment practices; standards and ontologies; approaches
that promote open science and sharing of data, results
and software; and ways to grow open source communities
while promoting diversity within them. As usual, BOSC
will include keynote talks, longer and shorter (light-
ning) talks from submitted abstracts, posters, Birds of
a Feather, and more!
New this year: Joint session with Bio-Ontologies! We
are excited to announce that BOSC and Bio-Ontologies
will join forces for part of a day at ISMB 2022. The
joint session will feature keynote speaker Melissa Haen-
del as well as talks chosen from abstracts submit-
ted to BOSC or Bio-Ontologies. More information
at https://www.open-bio.org/2022/03/03/bosc-and-bio-
ontologies-joint-session/ Keynote Speakers Melissa
Haendel is the Chief Research Informatics Ocer at
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, and
Director of the Center for Data to Health (CD2H). With
expertise in molecular genetics and developmental bi-
ology as well as translational informatics, Dr. Haendel
focuses on open science and data integration to improve
rare-disease diagnosis and mechanism discovery. She is
a leader in ontologies and standards for data sharing.
Lior Pachter is the Bren professor of computational bi-
ology at Caltech. He is a Fellow of the International
Society of Computational Biology and has been awarded
a National Science Foundation CAREER award, and
a Sloan Research Fellowship. His research interests
span the mathematical and biological sciences, includ-
ing algorithms, combinatorics, comparative genomics,
algebraic statistics, molecular biology and evolution. Dr.
Pachter is known as a vociferous advocate of open andaccountable science.
A third keynote speaker will be announced soon! Learn
more at https://open-bio.org/events/bosc-2022/bosc-
2022-keynotes Abstract submission We encourage you
to submit abstracts (due April 21) on any topic relevant
to open source bioinformatics or open science. After re-
view, some abstracts will be selected for lightning talks,
longer talks, or posters. Abstracts that are not chosen
for talks will automatically be considered for posters.
Abstract submission will be done using ISMB's Easy-
Chair at https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2022/-
submit/. Note that ISMBrequires a short (200-word)
text-only abstract for all submissions (talk or poster),
plus a \long abstract" (PDF, 2 pages max) if you want
to be considered for a talk. A second, later round of
submissions will end May 19. Abstracts submitted in
the late round will be considered only for posters and a
limited number of \late-breaking lightning talk" slots;
they are not eligible for longer talks.
Registration fee assistance We realize that the cost of
ISMB may be prohibitive for some. If you are submit-
ting an abstract to BOSC and would have diculty
covering the cost of registration, you can request a regis-
tration fee waiver right on the abstract submission form
(which will not be seen by reviewers). Those who are
not submitting abstracts can apply for an OBF Event
Fellowship at https://www.open-bio.org/event-awards
(deadline April 1, 2022).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
McMasterU Canada
EvolutionCaenorhabditis Jun20-23
Hello evo-worm community,
The 2022 conference on the Ecology, Evolution and Ge-
nomics of C. elegans and Other Nematodes is planned for
June 20-23 at McMaster University in Ontario, Canada.
Planning to attend?
Please help us by completing a Pre-Registration Form
(link below). Completing the form will only take a mo-
ment and does not commit you to anything, but will be
very useful in helping us plan and set costs.8 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Here is what we anticipate:
Approximate Registration Costs (meals included):
600 USD (faculty) 500 USD (post-docs) 400 USD (grad-
uate students/technicians) 300 USD (undergraduates)
On-Campus Housing Costs:
Approximately 100 USD / night
Please complete the form by March 25, if possible.
Thank you!
LINK TO PRE-REGISTRATION FORM https://-
forms.gle/PAg19GiSu9H13tAr6 And you can stay up to
date on details via the meeting website, or via Twitter:
MEETING WEBSITE https://bit.ly/evoworm2022
TWITTER #evoworm2022
Co-organizers Christian Braendle Bhagwati Gupta Te-
Wen Lo Annalise Paaby
Annalise Paaby
Assistant Professor School of Biological Sciences Georgia
Institute of Technology
website: genaamics.org
\Paaby, Annalise B" <paaby@gatech.edu >
Naples EuroEvoDevo May31-Jun3
AbstractDeadline
Dear Evo-Devo researchers,
This is a reminder that the abstract submission deadline
and the early bird registration deadline for Euro Evo
Devo is this Friday, *March 4, 2022*.
Please check https://www.evodevonapoli.eu/ for addi-
tional information, and for registration and abstract
submission.
The conference will take place from May 31 to June 3 in
the historic city center of Naples, Italy, at the beautiful
Stazione Marittima and with satellite meetings at the
Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn.
We look forward to meeting you all in Italy, to discuss
science with good old and new friends alike!
With all best wishes,
The local organizing committee The executive commit-
tee of the European Society for Evolutionary Develop-
mental BiologyEED Society <eed.soc@gmail.com >
NHM London
EvolutionOfDeuterostomes May12
Fossils, Phylogenies, Genomes, Embryos & the Evolu-
tion of the Deuterostomes
A one day symposium to be held at the Natural History
Museum, London.
May 12 2022.
Details and sign up here:
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/fossils-phylogenies-
genomes-embryos-the-evolution-of-the-deuterostomes-
tickets-228801691017 Hope to see you there.
Best wishes
Max
Max Telford Jodrell Professor of Zoology and Com-
parative Anatomy Department of Genetics, Evolu-
tion and Environment, University College London,
Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT,
UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554 (Internal: 32554)
Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
biology/academic-sta/telford/telford.html \Telford,
Max" <m.telford@ucl.ac.uk >
Online AlaskaNatHistory May24-26
SEAK2022 Workshop May24-26
We are pleased to announce SEAK2022 - a virtual Work-
shop May 24-26 focusing on the natural history of South-
east Alaska, and neighboring regions along the British
Columbia coast. We are seeking presentations on cli-
mate change, ice sheet dynamics, volcanic geohazards,
Ice Age refugia, biodiversity, and biogeographic history.
Please visit the workshop website for more informa-
tion: http://www.glyfac.bualo.edu/Faculty/briner/-
SEAK2022/ Registration is free. Deadline for contact-
ing us with a talk suggestion isApril 22. Deadline for
abstract submission is May 6.
To indicate interest in attending and/or to suggest aApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 9
contribution,email jbriner@bualo.edu
The program will be dictated by those interested in
participating. We envision having one day focused on
identifying gaps in knowledge about the geologic history,
with a focus on past glaciation and volcanism in the
Quaternary. We envision another day focused on iden-
tifying gaps in knowledge of biodiversity patterns and
biogeographic history through the last glaciation and
across the Holocene. We plan to make time for break-
out discussions that will lead to a workshop report that
identies key gaps in knowledge, and how to ll them.
Best wishes from the organizers,
Charlotte Lindqvist Jason Briner University at Bualo
Charlotte Lindqvist, PhD Associate Professor De-
partment of Biological Sciences University at Bualo
(SUNY), Bualo, NY 14260 Cl243@bualo.edu
Charlotte Lindqvist <cl243@bualo.edu >
Online CIGENE Mar39
Hi All,
The next CIGENE seminar speaker is Dr. Jos? Cerca,
, NTNU. He will give a talk entitled: A chromosome-
resolved genome of Darwin's giant daisy trees (Scalesia;
Gal?pagos endemics) shows the genomic basis of the
plant island syndrome
Time: Wednesday, March 30th, 12-13 CET
Abstract: Oceanic archipelagos comprise multiple dis-
parate environments in small areas, and home few
species per area. These elements set in motion some
of the most spectacular adaptive radiations, thus oer-
ing a unique chance to characterise the genomic basis
underlying changes in morphology, ecology and phys-
iology. Plants in oceanic archipelagos often undergo
changes in leaf morphology, acquire perennial life habits,
readjust their chemical ecology, and change their ploidy
(i.e. island syndromes). In this talk, I will present the
genome of the critically endangered Scalesia atracty-
loides, a member of Darwin's giant daisy tree radiation
in the Gal?pagos. We obtained a chromosome-resolved
3.2-Gbp assembly with 43,093 candidate genes. We iden-
tied the two ancestral (sub)genomes coming together in
the allopolyploidization event, and date their divergence.
We found signatures of selection across genes associated
with vascular development, life-growth, adaptation to
salinity and changes in owering time, nding evidencefor genomic adaptation associated with transitions to
insular life (island syndromes).
This will be an online event. Contact us to receive the
meeting link. https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/
Best,
Marie
Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. (Still accepting postdoc applica-
tions! - by March 27th.)
Tenure-Track Principal Investigator, Centre of
Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty of
Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sci-
ences https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab
marie.saitou@nmbu.no
Online CIGENE SexualSelection
Mar16
Hi all, The next CIGENE seminar speaker is Prof. Dr.
Stefan L >1
2pold, University of Zurich. He will give a
talk entitled: Post-mating sexual selection depends on
many players
Abstract: When a female mate with multiple males,
paternity success may depend on complex interactions
between both the female and the competing sperm of
her mates. Such interactions have been identied as
potential sources of genetic variation in sexually selected
traits but are also expected to inhibit trait diversica-
tion. Unlike widely studied genotypic interactions, little
is known about how phenotypic variation in sexually
selected traits may contribute to their outcome. Using
fruit ies as an example, I will disentangle the complex
interactions between both male and female traits known
to inuence competitive fertilization. And I will demon-
strate that these interactions do not limit the ability of
multivariate systems to respond to directional sexual
selection, including the evolution of gigantic sperm.
Time: Wednesday, March 16th , 12:00-13:00 CET Place:
This will be an online seminar: Click here for ac-
cess to the Zoom seminar. <https://nmbu.zoom.us/-
j/67064421833 >
For more information, check out the seminar website:
https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-series/ ** We are
looking for a postdoc!!! By 3/27**
{ Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal In-
vestigator, Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE),
Faculty of Biosciences, Norwegian University of10 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Life Sciences https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab
Marie Saito <marie.saitou@nmbu.no >Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
PennsylvaniaStateU
EvolMicrobiomes May31-Jun3
On behalf of the organizing committee at Penn State
University, we would like to invite you to the upcom-
ing symposium 'Changing Microbiomes' held May 31st-
June 3rd, 2022, in Boalsburg, PA. Please distribute this
notice to members of your lab, department, and micro-
biome research community that would be interested in
attending the symposium!
Microbiome ecological and evolutionary changes underlie
current and future biogeochemical uxes, agricultural
sustainability, and human health. This meeting will
bring together researchers working to transition towards
functional and process-driven microbiome research in
natural and managed systems.
The meeting has a fantastic line-up of invited speak-
ers and will provide plenty of opportunities for net-
working and interaction. See our conference web-
site ( https://web.cvent.com/event/a56d208e-95a8-419c-
a431-80aad460a379/summary) for additional informa-
tion. The deadline for oral presentation abstract submis-
sion is March 15th, and the poster presentation deadline
is April 15th. Early Bird registration rate closes on
April 1st.
To make this conference accessible, we have secured
funding to keep costs low. Registration includes meals.
We can also oer about 20 attendees presenting a
poster or oral presentation grants to cover registra-
tion, lodging, and travel. Attendees can apply to be
considered for this support during abstract submission
<https://cvent.me/BxOQPb >. Eligible applicants
include all 1) early career researchers (students and
postdocs), 2) researchers regardless of stage at PUI's,
HBCU's, HSACU's, TCU's, PMSI's, and 3) individuals
who are members of underrepresented or marginalized
populations in STEM. To be eligible, submit your ab-
stract and application materials by March 15th. Con-
tact liana.burghardt@psu.edu with additional questions
about travel grants.
Thanks for your consideration,
*Symposium Organizers:*
Corien BakermansTerrance Bell
Mary Ann Bruns
Liana Burghardt
Estelle Couradeau
Emily Davenport
Francisco Dini-Andreote
Kevin Hockett
Siela Maximova
Emily R. Davenport, Ph.D. jAssistant Professor Penn
State UniversityjDepartment of Biology jWartik Lab-
oratory - Room 305 https://davenport-lab.github.io/ j
Twitter: @emo davenport
Emily Davenport <emily.davenport@psu.edu >
Prague
CombinatorialRapidSpeciation
Aug14-19
Open call for abstracts for our symposium at ESEB
2022 in Prague (14-19 August): \A combinatorial view
on rapid speciation - the role of ancient genetic variants
and hybridisation" (S05).
Abstract submission currently open, deadline 15 April
2022.
Symposium description: Recent genomic advances have
revealed that hybridisation is much more common than
previously thought and the genetic variants that directly
contribute to rapid speciation or adaptation often are
the result of introgression between species. These recent
ndings provide an answer to the puzzle of rapid specia-
tion and how in adaptive radiations, multiple successive
speciation events can occur in rapid succession. An
important role of ancient genetic variants has recently
been conrmed in many classic cases of rapid adaptation
and speciation such as those of Darwin's nches, Hawai-
ian silverswords, Heliconius butteries, East African
cichlid shes, stickleback sh, or Caribbean pupshes.
Combinatorial speciation using ancient genetic variants
circumvents long wait times for adaptive mutations and
the slow buildup of reproductive isolation through ac-
cumulating incompatibilities. This symposium aims to
show the commonalities of these classical study systems
but also highlight less well-known cases of rapid speci-
ation and adaptive radiation where an important roleApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 11
of old genetic variants has been found. We seek to un-
derstand how widespread combinatorial speciation may
be and how it interacts with other processes that can
enhance speciation rate, such as sexual selection. We
are committed to making a diverse symposium in terms
of speakers, study systems, and methods.
We especially encourage submission from early career
researchers and historically underrepresented groups.
Submit via the website: https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/-
call-for-abstracts-page Keynote speakers: Loren Ries-
berg (University of British Columbia), Emilie Richards
(UC-Berkeley)
Organizers: Genevieve Kozak (University of
Massachusetts-Dartmouth) Joana Meier (Univer-
sity of Cambridge) David Marques (Natural History
Museum Basel)
For additional information, contact Genevieve Kozak,
gkozak@umassd.edu
Genevieve M Kozak <gkozak@umassd.edu >
Prague EvolutionOfSenescence
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce our ESEB 2022 sympo-
sium \How have biomarkers improved our understanding
of health and the evolution of senescence?" (S34) in
Prague, 14-19 August 2022.
Abstract submission deadline: 15 April 2022 https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page INVITED
SPEAKERS Britt Heidinger, North Dakota State
University (https://sites.google.com/site/heidingerlab/-
home) Julien Martin, University of Ottawa (https://-
juliengamartin.github.io)
SYMPOSIUM SUMMARY As individuals reach older
ages their bodies deteriorate - a process known as senes-
cence. Individuals within the same species can dier
greatly in the age they start to senesce, and the rate at
which they senesce. However, why individuals senesce
so dierently remains unresolved and this is one of
the biggest unanswered questions in evolutionary bi-
ology. Understanding the drivers of senescence has
important ramications for veterinary medicine, conser-
vation, health and society, as it could help individuals
to live longer, healthier lives. This symposium will seek
to address this knowledge gap by bringing together re-searchers with expertise in senescence from theoretical,
laboratory and eld settings. In particular it will focus
on how our understanding of health and the evolution
of senescence has been altered with the development
of indicators and biomarkers of senescence such as epi-
genetic clocks and telomeres. Biomarkers have shed
light on the relative impact of social, environmental,
genetic and trans-generational eects on senescence. A
better understanding of advances in the evolutionary
theory of senescence, the occurrence and life-history
consequences of senescence, and the underlying genetic
and non-genetic mechanisms will signicantly further
the eld. This knowledge is vital to understanding why
senescence has evolved and how it is maintained.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANISERS Hannah Dug-
dale, University of Groningen (https://-
hannahdugdale.wordpress.com)
Julia Schroeder, Imperial College London (https://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/people/julia.schroeder)
Janet Chik, University of Groningen (https://-
www.rug.nl/sta/h.y.j.chik)
Tom Brown, University of East Anglia (https://research-
portal.uea.ac.uk/en/persons/thomas-brown)
ESEB CONGRESS ATTENDANCE GRANTS ESEB
Equal Opportunities Conference Attendance Grant:
https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ ESEB
Student and Early-Career Researcher Conference Travel
Award: https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/conference-
travel-award/ Looking forward to seeing you in Prague!
Hannah, Julia, Janet & Tom
Hannah Dugdale <h.l.dugdale@rug.nl >
Prague omicsApproaches Aug13-14
Integrating -omics approaches for eco-evolutionary re-
search We are thrilled to announce the DrosEU/ESEB
STN Summer school on \Integrating -omics approaches
for eco-evolutionary research" that will take place on
13-14 August 2022 in Prague, immediately before the
ESEB 2022 meeting (https://www.eseb2022.cz) <http:/-
/evolutionmontpellier2018.org/) >.
Omics analyses hold great promise to understand both
ultimate and proximate causes of phenotypic adapta-
tion at dierent hierarchical levels, and cutting-edge
technological advances now bring these analyses within12 EvolDir April 1, 2022
reach of a growing number of researchers. Especially
gene expression analyses have been widely adopted, pro-
viding valuable insights into the mechanisms of evolu-
tion. Rapid developments in RNAseq have resulted in a
plethora of dierent approaches to analyze gene expres-
sion patterns, facilitating analyses of whole organisms
or targeted organs, but now also at the resolution of
single cells. In addition, recently emerging -omics ap-
proaches, such as proteomics and metabolomics, provide
opportunities to better understand the trajectories from
genotypes to phenotypes.
The summer school aims to foster constructive discus-
sion on the application of -omics approaches for evo-
lutionary studies in a variety of study systems in a
small-scale setting. The school is organized by the Eu-
ropean Drosophila Population Genomics Consortium
(DrosEU; http://droseu.net/) and sponsored by the Eu-
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) STN.
The summer school is meant to complement the sympo-
sium on Adaptation Genomics (S24) at ESEB. Although
DrosEU focuses on Drosophila, the research questions,
methodological approaches and the conceptual issues
addressed by our consortium apply to many species
beyond the Drosophila model.
We will welcome approximately 30-40 people, especially
students and postdocs from within and outside the
DrosEU community, as well as invited speakers who
are leaders in the eld, to our mini-summer school that
will start on Saturday morning and end on Sunday
around lunch time. There will be 3 invited speakers, 9
contributed presentations by PhDs or post-docs, and a
poster session. The poster session is primarily meant
to initiate discussion on approaches and experimental
design, hence we especially welcome posters with pre-
liminary data or a study design. By bringing together
researchers that apply dierent -omics techniques and
working on dierent model systems, we aim to promote
a stimulating discussion on where the challenges and
opportunities lie within this eld.
Registration is open to everyone on a rst come rst
served basis, but priority will be given to PhD students
and postdocs attending the ESEB 2022 conference. The
workshop will be free of charge, but lunch and dinner are
not included. Link to the registration website: https://-
forms.gle/cCSPWtZWexZKTYvAA We look forward
to seeing you in Prague!
The organizing committee: Esra Durmaz [Fribourg],
Pau Carazo [Valencia], Katja Hoedjes [Amsterdam],
and Jindrich Brejcha [Prague] on behalf of DrosEU
Contact: esradurmaz [@] gmail.com, please add \Sum-
mer School" to the subject lineInvited speakers
§Isabel Almudi [University of Barcelona, Faculty of
Biology] https://www.mayyecoevodevo.com/ §Sonja
Grath [Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitat Munchen]
https://evol.bio.lmu.de/research/grath/index.html
§3rd invited speaker to be conrmed
Pau Carazo <pau.carazo@uv.es >
Prague PhenotypicPlasticity
Aug14-19 CallForAbstracts
Dear colleagues,
Announcing ESEB 2022 Symposium (S22)
*PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY'S IMPORTANCE IN
EVOLUTION: SAME OLD DOG OR NEW TRICKS?
*We are welcoming submissions for our symposium at
the Congress of the European Society for Evolution-
ary Biology <https://www.eseb2022.cz >in Prague
(*August 14-19 2022*). Why old dogs and new tricks?
See abstract below! The symposium is focused on mak-
ing progress resolving controversy about potential or
realised evolutionary consequences of phenotypic plas-
ticity. We encourage empirical and theoretical talks
on that topic and look forward to a diversity of study
systems, methodological approaches, and speakers. **
Symposium S22 <https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/-
symposia >: Phenotypic plasticity's importance in evo-
lution: Same old dog or new tricks?
The role of phenotypic plasticity in evolution has been
debated for over a century, but there is still no consensus
about its general eects on processes such as adaptation
and speciation, or more importantly, whether plasticity's
causal impact on the evolutionary process is comparable
to factors such as direct environmental change, ecol-
ogy, selection, genetic mutation, etc. Arguments for a
strong role in evolution have been given renewed atten-
tion recently, and form an important basis for calls to
\extend" basic evolutionary theory. However, these ideas
have attracted considerable criticism. Is the substan-
tial research attention paid to the role of plasticity in
evolution warranted by its actual importance? We will
address this question by undertaking a critical synthe-
sis based on recent theoretical advances and empirical
ndings. With this symposium we will bring together
scientists studying evolutionary causes and consequences
of phenotypic plasticity from a wide variety of research
traditions, with emphasis on narrowing the data-theoryApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 13
gap. The symposium and a potential associated target
review in Journal of Evolutionary Biology are intended
to re-focus this subeld of evolutionary biology, and
identify research priorities for the future that capital-
ize on advances in genetics, behaviour and theoretical
modelling.
*INVITED SPEAKERS* We are delighted to an-
nounce our symposium speakers: *Amanda Bretman*
< https://biologicalsciences.leeds.ac.uk/school-of-
biology/sta/36/dr-amanda-bretman >(University
of Leeds, UK ) and *Luis-Miguel Chevin* <
https://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/en/research/evolutionary-
ecology/genetique-et-ecologie-evolutive-3/800-french/-
recherche/ee/gee/c/474-luis-miguel-chevin >( CEFE,
Montpellier, France).
*ABSTRACT SUBMISSION* Abstracts can be sub-
mitted here <https://www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-
abstracts-page >. The deadline for abstract submission
is *April 15th 2022*. Feel free to contact Nathan Bai-
ley (nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk) or Camille Desjonqu eres
(cdesjonqu@gmail.com) if you have any questions re-
garding the symposium.
*TRAVEL AND AID GRANTS* Information on student
and ECR travel stipends is here <https://eseb.org/-
prizes-funding/conference-travel-award/ >. Information
on Congress Attendance Aid Grants can be found here
<https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/congress-attendance-aid-grant/ >.
All the best, Nathan and Camille
Camille Desjonqu eres <cdesjonqu@gmail.com >
Prague PlantEvolution Sep20-22
Dear colleagues and students,
Are you or do you know a Bachelor/Master/PhD stu-
dent willing to network with and present their work to
peers?
PhD students from the departments of Botany and
Experimental Plant Biology of Charles University in
the Czech Republic and the Institute of Botany of the
Czech Academy of Sciences are organizing a Conference
on Plant Biology for students, by students!
Why joining?
- keynote speakers with dierent levels of experience:
Antonin Machac ( Postdoctoral Fellow at CopenhagenUniversity, Denmark), an early career scientist, with
whom to get early career advice and network; Claudia
K ohler (Department Director at Max Planck, Germany),
an established and world famous researcher, to learn
about and get inspired by broad questions in biology.
- an opportunity to present your work as a students for
a talk or a poster
- workshops on soft skills training
- Substantial time dedicated to networking and socialis-
ing
- Located in the beautiful city of Prague
- It is free!
More info:
https://plantbioconference.wordpress.com/ Twitter
@student conf22
Deadline to register: 1st of June. Don't miss your
chance!
Organization & scientic committee: Iris Sammarco,
Susnata Salony, ~Amer _Iltas, Mohammad Javad Haghigh-
atnia, Juan Manuel Gorospe, Lorena Meusel, Mar a
Pinilla Vargas
We are looking forward to meet you in Prague in Septem-
ber!
Best regards,
Student Conference of Plant Biology organising commit-
tee
Juan Manuel Gorospe
Univerzita Karlova P A rodov Adeck a fakulta Albertov
6, 128 43 Praha 2 www.natur.cuni.cz Charles Uni-
versity Faculty of Science Albertov 6, 128 43 Praha 2
www.natur.cuni.cz/en Juan Manuel Gorospe Balles-
teros<degorosj@natur.cuni.cz >Juan Manuel Gorospe
Ballesteros <degorosj@natur.cuni.cz >
Prague
PredatorCognitionPreyDefences
Aug14-19
Dear colleagues,
Our ESEB 2022 symposium \Predator cognition and the
evolution of prey defence strategies" (S.16) is now open
for abstract submissions (see https://www.eseb2022.cz
for further details)and registration.14 EvolDir April 1, 2022
The meeting will be held in Prague, Czech Republic on
14-19 August 2022.
Symposium description: Animals employ numerous
strategies to avoid predation, and the evolution of cam-
ouage, aposematism, mimicry and other forms of an-
tipredator defence is at the core of research interest
of evolutionary biologists. As shown by recent studies
focused on interactions between prey defences and preda-
tor cognitive mechanisms, understanding the selective
forces driving the evolution of prey defence strategies
requires studying their coevolution with predator percep-
tion, cognition, and subsequent behavioural responses.
Furthermore, these studies have also highlighted the
importance of studying predator cognition in ecologi-
cally relevant settings and testing behavioural responses
in addition to investigating sensory capabilities. This
approach has made it possible to address new questions,
such as what factors inuence predator decisions to
attack potentially dangerous prey, how prey defences
and predator cognitive mechanisms interact through the
predation sequence, how predators respond to multicom-
ponent and multimodal defences, and how predators
use individual and social information about prey. This
symposium aims to bring together current experimental,
comparative and theoretical approaches to study interac-
tions between predator cognitive mechanisms and prey
defence strategies, identify the factors shaping predator
behavioural responses, establish critical gaps in our un-
derstanding of the evolution of antipredator defences,
and outline directions for future research.
Our keynote speakers are Johanna Mappes (University
of Helsinki) and Tom Sherratt (Carleton University).
Abstracts can be submitted on: https://-
www.eseb2022.cz/en/call-for-abstracts-page. The
call is open until the 15th of April 2022.
Early-bird registration is open until the 15th of June
2022.
ESEB also proposes a conference attendance aid
grant. For further details, see: https://eseb.org/-
prizes-funding/equal-opportunities- initiative/congress-
attendance-aid-grant/
Should you have any questions or for further information
please contact us.
All the best, Bibiana & Alice
Alice Exnerova Department of Zoology, Charles Univer-
sity, Prague, Czech Republic exnerova@natur.cuni.cz
Bibiana Rojas Department of Interdisciplinary Life
Sciences, Konrad Lorenz Institute of Ethology, Uni-
versity of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria bib-
iana.rojas@vetmeduni.ac.atalice.exnerova@natur.cuni.cz al-
ice.exnerova@natur.cuni.cz
QuebecCity
EvolutionFungalPathogens
May25-26
We are happy to invite you to the SMBE Satellite Meet-
ing on the Evolution of Fungal Pathogens in Qu >1
2bec
City, May 25-26, 2022.
Fungal pathogens impose great challenges in health care,
agriculture, and forestry. This meeting aims to bring
together researchers at all career stages studying clini-
cal, agricultural, and environmental fungal pathogens to
share their perspectives on how fungal pathogens evolve
and how can they be controlled.
Registration Period 15 March (7AM EST) - 15 April
(11.30PM EST)
Invited Speakers
Christina Cuomo, Broad Institute Population genomics
and the evolution of virulence traits in Cryptococcus
neoformans
Bin He, Iowa University Parallel expansion and diver-
gence of the Hyr/I-like (Hil) adhesin family in oppor-
tunistic yeast pathogens
Charissa De Bekker, University of Central Florida Hi-
jacking behavior: Connecting fungal genomes with ani-
mal host phenomes using zombie ants as a model
Richard Hamelin, University of British Columbia Evo-
lution of fungal forest pathogens
We minimized registration costs ( $100) and oer multi-
ple oral talk formats.
We oer 10 travel awards for PhD students and Postdoc-
toral fellows from Low- and Middle-Income countries to
attend and present their work ( $1000 + registration +
accommodation).
Find more information here:
https://event.fourwaves.com/smbe-meeting-evolution-
of-fungal-pathogens/pages Come visit us in beautiful
Qu >1
2bec City.
For more information, contact us at evofun-
path[at]bcm.ulaval.ca
We thank our- Major sponsors: SMBE, NSERC and
FRQNT Other sponsors: Universit >1
2Laval (Biologie),April 1, 2022 EvolDir 15
PROTEO, IBIS, Qu >1
2bec Cit >1
2, VWR, Eurons
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
Switzerland
MathComputationalEvol Jun26-30
Mathematical and Computational Evolutionary Biology
(MCEB), June 26-30 2022 June 26-30 { Chateau d'Oex,
in the Switzerland mountains, near Lausanne.
https://mceb2022.sciencesconf.org/ Dates and dead-
lines:
April 15: Pre-registration and abstract submission on
conference web site April 25: Notication of decisions
to applicants May 5: End of registrations and payment
(~550 euro , including accomodation) June 26 (evening)
- 30 (early afternoon): Conference
This year's edition of MCEB is special as it will take
place in Switzerland, unlike previous editions of that
conference that alternated between Montpellier's back-
country and Porquerolles island. We will cover several
scientic themes, focusing mainly on cancer evolution,
phylodynamics, phylogenomics and mathematical phylo-
genetics. In particular, we will see how new models and
algorithms deal with the huge amount of genetic data
available nowadays in order to improve our understand-
ing of the mechanisms governing evolution at multiple
scales.
Beyond this year's themes, general concepts, models,
methods and algorithms will be presented and discussed,
just as in the previous editions of MCEB. As usual, the
meeting will bring together researchers originating from
various disciplines: mathematics, computer science, phy-
logenetics, population genetics, epidemiology, ecological
modeling... Keynote speakers will introduce a eld of
research and discuss their own work in this eld (see
below). Afternoon will be for short presentations and
posters, with plenty of time for discussions. We will stop
early every day, thus leaving time for other activities,
such as hiking.
Keynote speakers :
. C ecile Ane, https://botany.wisc.edu/sta/ane-
cecile/ . Maria Anisimova, https://www.zhaw.ch/-
en/about-us/person/anis/ . Niko Beerenwinkel,
https://bsse.ethz.ch/department/people/detail-
person.MTQ5NDE3.TGlzdC8yNjY5LDEwNjI4NTM0MDk=
.html . David Bryant, http://www.maths.otago.ac.nz/-~dbryant/ . Rosa Fernandez, https://-
www.metazomics.com/ . Denise K uhnert, https:/-
/www.shh.mpg.de/person/54587/935000 For more
information and abstract submission, visit the web-
site at: https://mceb2022.sciencesconf.org/ Olivier
GASCUEL <olivier.gascuel@mnhn.fr >
UCalifornia SanDiego
RECOMB-CG May20-21
CallForPosters
The 19th RECOMB Satellite Conference on Compara-
tive Genomics
RECOMB-CG 2022 University of California at San
Diego, La Jolla, USA May 20-21, 2022 Poster Sub-
mission Deadline: April 8, 2022
The RECOMB-CG satellite conference, founded in 2003,
brings together leading researchers in the mathematical,
computational and life sciences to discuss cutting edge
research in comparative genomics, with an emphasis
on computational approaches and novel experimental
results. The program includes both invited speakers,
contributed talks and poster sessions.
Contributions on any theoretical and/or empirical ap-
proach to genome-wide comparison are welcome. Topics
of interest include genome evolution, population ge-
nomics, genome rearrangements, genomic variation, di-
versity and dynamics, phylogenomics, comparative tools
for genome assembly, comparison of functional networks,
gene identication or annotation, cancer evolutionary
genomics, comparative epigenomics, paleogenomics, epi-
demiology and related areas. We encourage submissions
that oer new biological ndings or otherwise highlight
their relevance to biology.
We sollicite high-quality poster abstracts on novel com-
putational or experimental results that fall within the
general scope of the conference.
Key Dates
Poster submission deadline: Friday, April 8, 2022 Au-
thor notication for posters: Friday, April 22, 2022
Registration open: Monday, March 14, 2022
Conference starts: Friday, May 20, 2022 Conference
ends: Saturday, May 21, 2022
Keynote Speakers
Aoife McLysaght (University of Dublin, Ireland) Rachel16 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Dutton (University of California at San Diego, USA)
Nandita Garud (University of California at Los Angeles,
USA)
Submission Guidelines
Submitted abstracts must be at most 2 pages in length
including references and gures, in PDF format ac-
cording to the LNBI guidelines. See the https://-
recombcg2022.usask.ca/ for more details.
All submissions must be made online, through the Easy-
Chair submission system, at the following address:
https://easychair.org/my/conference?conf=-
3Drecombcg2022 At least one author of each
accepted poster will be expected to attend the
conference and present the poster.
lingling.jin@cs.usask.ca
UKansas Genomics May20
Conference: KU Center for Genomics 1st Annual Re-
search Symposium, May 20, 2022
Dear Colleagues,
It is our pleasure to invite you to the 1stAnnual Research
Symposium hosted by the KU Center for Genomics. The
meeting will be held in person on Friday, May 20, 2022
atMaceli's Banquet Hallin Lawrence, KS. The sympo-
sium aims to highlight genetics and genomics work by
researchers at regional institutions in diverse elds from
evolutionary biology to anthropology to engineering.
There will be a special oral presentation session focusing
on microbial genomics, and we will have an exciting
keynote talk from incoming University of Minnesota
Assistant Professor, Helen Vuong on \Understanding
microbiome and nervous system interactions."
We invite anyone including postdocs, graduate students,
research sta, undergraduates, and faculty to apply
to present their work via poster or oral presentation.
Abstracts are due April 4 for oral presentations, and
April 11 for poster presentations. The event is free for
anyone to present or attend. Online viewing of oral
presentations will also be available.
For additional information about the symposium includ-
ing registration information, please see the attached yer
or follow this link. Please feel free to forward this to any-
one who may be interested. If there are any questions
or comments, please direct them to kucg@ku.edu.On behalf of the organizing committee, we look forward
to seeing everyone in May!
Dr. Wen-Juan Ma
Senior Postdoctoral Research Associate
4012 Haworth Hall Department of Molecular Bioscience
The University of Kansas 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
Lawrence, Kansas 66045 USA
My website: http://www.wenjuanma.com/ Twitter:
@WenJuanMa84
Wen-Juan Ma <wenjuanma84@gmail.com >
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun9-11
Taking place at the University of Notre Dame, this year's
Arthropod Genomics Symposium will focus on new in-
sights gleaned from analyzing arthropod genomes and
is designed for scientists interested in genomic studies
of arthropods, including arthropod vectors of disease,
model organisms and those of agricultural relevance.
*For more information about the Symposium and a link
to register, click here <https://cvent.me/qvLA93 >.*
Notre Dame Conference Center <CCE.CCE.1@nd.edu >
Wellcome VirusGenomicsEvolution
Nov9-11
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for
Wellcome Connecting Science jVirus Genomics and
Evolution 2022
Date: 9-11 November 2022
This conference will provide a multidisciplinary forum
for researchers interested in the genomics and evolution-
ary analysis of viruses. The meeting will address the
fundamental questions of viral evolution, transmission
and pathogenesis. It will showcase advances in viral
genomics, bioinformatics and sequencing technology, as
well as methodologies for large viral dataset analysis.
The application of viral genomic studies for patient man-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 17
agement and public health will be explored. Genomics
of epidemic and non-epidemic viruses, emerging viral
infections and pathogen discovery will be covered, in
addition to SARS-CoV-2.
For registration and the nal pro-
gramme, please visit: https://-
coursesandconferences.wellcomeconnectingscience.org/-
event/virus-genomics-and-evolution-20221109/
Scientic Programme Committee M Kate Grabowski
- Johns Hopkins University, USA Christian Happi
- Redeemer's University, Nigeria Katrina Lythgoe -
University of Oxford, UK Emma Thomson - University
of Glasgow, UK
For questions, please contact: confer-
ences@wellcomeconnectingscience.org
{ The Wellcome Sanger Institute is operated by Genome
Research Limited, a charity registered in England with
number 1021457 and a company registered in England
with number 2742969, whose registered oce is 215
Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
Jane Murphy <jane.murphy@wellcomeconnectingscience.org >
YosemiteNatlPark Symbiosis
May13-15
REGISTRATION NOW OPEN
Dear Colleagues,
After a two-year absence, The TENTH annual Yosemite
Symbiosis Workshop will take place on May 13th-15th,
2022 at the Sierra Nevada Research Institute, Yosemite
National Park. We have really missed having this meet-
ing over the last two years. In the previous nine years,
this meeting became a great venue for a diversity of
symbiosis researchers. We hope to continue to attract a
diverse group in 2022!
Keynote speaker 2022: Michelle Nishiguchi, UC Merced
COVID19 Safety:
Attendees will be required to attest to full vaccination
status against SARS-CoV2 during the registration pro-
cess.
Rapid antigen tests will be made upon arrival at the
conference (provided by us) to provide an extra layer of
safety for attendees
The meeting will occur indoors, and masks will be re-quired during meeting sessions when the opportunity
for social distancing will be limited.
Meals, and coee/snack breaks will be provided outside
weather permitting. Temperatures in mid-May are usu-
ally mild, but there is always some chance that it will
be cold and or rainy during the meeting.
Information about our meeting:
Why attend?
Our continuing goal is to better integrate the broad
groups of scientists that focus on symbiosis research.
Yosemite serves as an ideal site as it is both beautiful
and secluded. This will be our 10th annual meeting and
we have been consistently attracting scientists from all
over the country and overseas.
Who will be there?
The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants) and
we seek to focus on scientists interested in cooperation,
mutualism, and symbiosis. In the past we have covered
a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-
model systems. We would like to make room for a
diverse group of people so we will initially accept up to
3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a rst
come rst served basis.
When is the meeting?
The talks and formal meeting will be held May 14th and
15th, 2022, though we make accommodation arrange-
ments available for attendees to arrive on Friday the
13th to provide opportunities to enjoy the park. There
will be a welcome party on the evening of arrival, Friday
May 13th. Since time at the conference is limited, we
ask attendees to submit an abstract and a preference
(talk versus poster). Priority will be given to those pre-
senting. Abstract and early bird registration will be due
on March 1st, 2022.
Where is the meeting?
This is the best part! The meeting takes place at the
Sierra Nevada Research Station, in Wawona California,
within the border of Yosemite National Park!
What will it cost?
Advanced Registration (deadline April 1st, 2022) Stu-
dents: $230, Postdocs $250, PIs $300 Late registration
(deadline April 19th, 2022) Students: $260, Postdocs
$280, PIs $330
Registration AND payment page is here: https://-
snri.ucmerced.edu/form/symbiosis-workshop-2022
Please make sure to REGISTER rst then PAY
Please direct any questions to the organizers:18 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu
*Joel L. Sachs* (he, him, his) *Professor, *Department
of Evolution Ecology & Organismal Biology Universityof California, Riverside Oce (951) 827-6357 / Fax (951)
827-4286 / www.sachslab.com *Post address*: Sachs
Lab - UC Riverside 3401 Watkins Dr., 1229 Spieth Hall,
Riverside, CA 92521
Joel Sachs <joels@ucr.edu >
GradStudentPositions
ArkansasStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 18
AustralianNatlU ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 19
BielefeldU MushroomGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
CharlesU AllopolyploidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
CharlesU Prague EvolutionGenomicsFishes LASTcall
22
CheetahConservationFund Namibia ConsGenetics . 22
CityU London CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
CzechAcademy 2 PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Frankfurt ComparativeVertebrateGenomics . . . . . . . .24
KielU 14 TranslationalEvolutionaryResearch . . . . . . 25
LinnaeusU FishAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Macaronesia BirdSongEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Macaronesia EvolutionBirdSong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MaxPlanckInst Jena HostDiseaseBehaviour . . . . . . . .29
MichiganTechU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
MontpellierU MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
MPIO Seewiesen EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
PennsylvaniaStateU PlantConservationGenomics . . 32SGN Frankfurt 2 MutationEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
SGN Frankfurt EvolutionaryEcotoxicology . . . . . . . . 34
SGN Frankfurt MarineBiodiversity eDNA . . . . . . . . . 35
SGN Frankfurt MutationRateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 36
StockholmU Palaeogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Tours France InsectsEvolutionPesticides . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UBern Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UCalgary AdaptationTheoryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UFribourg 2 ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UHelsinki 7 ForestTreeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UKonstanz LaplandBirdBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ULausanne EvolutionaryConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . 43
UNeuchatel ComparativeGenomicsButteries . . . . . .44
UParis Saclay TransposableElementsAdaptation . . . 44
USBohemia Czechia EvolutionaryGenomicsButteries
45
USussex JohnMaynardSmithStudentship . . . . . . . . . . 46
UTartu Estonia HumanPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ArkansasStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Plant Evolutionary Genomics Master's Student Posi-
tion at Arkansas State University The Bellis & Marsico
Labs are seeking a Master's student interested in plant
evolutionary genomics, with a desire to study the evolu-
tionary ecology of invasive grasses that alter re regimes.
Specically, we are seeking a driven student interested
in studying the genomic diversity of wild sugarcane
(Saccharum spontaneum), a Federal Noxious Weed, that
is an emerging concern in the USA. The student will
conduct genomic sequence analysis to characterize theorigins of naturalizing wild sugarcane populations and
their hybrids and to understand mechanisms of adapta-
tion to novel environments in the southeastern USA.
This project is part of our ongoing collaborative re-
search with Dr. Rima Lucardi (USDA Forest Service)
that previously identied wild sugarcane as the most
abundant taxon hitchhiking into the USA on air-intake
grilles of refrigerated shipping containers (Lucardi et
al. 2020). In addition to genomic analysis, there is
potential to contribute to eld work, greenhouse experi-
ments, and vascular plant identication for the broader
collaborative project depending on student interests.
A Bachelor's degree in botany, biology, genetics, bioinfor-
matics, data science, computational biology, computer
science, or related eld is required. Applicants should
have a strong desire for scientic discovery, a thirst forApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 19
adventure, and a knowledge of or willingness to learn
programming (R and/or Python) and command-line
tools for genomic analysis.
Funding for this position is provided through a combina-
tion of a teaching assistantship and through a research
assistantship funded through the USDA Forest Service
and includes a tuition waiver. Summers are fully cov-
ered.
Applicants who are members of historically minoritized
communities including Black/African American, Indige-
nous, Latinx, LGBTQIA+, and/or rst-generation col-
lege students are particularly encouraged to apply. The
successful applicant should plan to begin in August 2022
or January 2023, though there is a possibility to start as
an hourly employee prior to beginning graduate school.
Arkansas State University is a comprehensive, state-
supported, doctoral university with high research activ-
ity (R2). The Department of Biological Sciences has
nearly 500 undergraduate and 60 graduate students
across Biology, Environmental Sciences, and Molecular
BioSciences graduate programs. Jonesboro is a com-
munity of nearly 80,000 people located in Northeast
Arkansas, amidst the Mississippi Alluvial Plain and
Crowley's Ridge ecoregions. We are an hour away from
Memphis, Tennessee, and the Ozark Highlands. Jones-
boro is a regional center for quality healthcare, and it
has a variety of dining and entertainment options, a low
cost of living, and plenty of recreational opportunities.
You can learn more about the Bellis and Marsico labs at
https://em-bellis.github.io and www.travismarsico.com.
If you plan to apply, please send an email to ebel-
lis@astate.edu that includes 1) a cover letter describing
your interests, career goals, and relevant research expe-
riences and skills; 2) your Curriculum Vitae [including
names and contact information for three references]; and
3) a copy of your academic transcripts (unocial copies
are acceptable). Review of requested pre-application
materials listed above will begin on March 15, 2022 and
continue until position is lled.
Emily S. Bellis, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Bioinformatics Arkansas State
University
Associate Director & Division Lead Center for No-
Boundary Thinking Division of Biological Systems
web: https://em-bellis.github.io email: ebel-
lis@astate.edu
Emily Bellis <ebellis@astate.edu >AustralianNatlU
ConservationGenomics
This project will suit a student with an interest in con-
servation genetics, molecular biology and bioinformatics
The Lord Howe Island stick insect, thought to be ex-
tinct but recently rediscovered, has become emblematic
of the dangers faced by island species in the face of
anthropogenic change. A planned reintroduction eort
aims to rescue this species, one of the rarest insects
in the world, from the brink of extinction. Our aims
ar?e to explore the unique genome biology of this in-
sect, and use it as a model for adaptation to captivity
and to the post-release environment. Our project was
just funded for three years, and will build on the recent
development of numerous genomic resources, such as a
high-quality genome assembly. The project will com-
bine cutting-edge molecular techniques and innovative
approaches to genotyping of unusual material (historical
and non-destructively sampled in the eld) with analysis
of next-generation sequencing data. This project will
blend fundamental science investigating genome evolu-
tion with research outcomes that will directly contribute
to ongoing conservation eorts. Thus, skills obtained
during this degree will be relevant to academia, as well
as the conservation sector, including government and
NGOs.
Suitable applicants need to be highly motivated with
a strong academic and research background. Demon-
strated ability to conduct independent research is re-
quired, with experience in the molecular lab, and some
experience in programming or data analysis being de-
sirable. Applicants should hold rst class honours or
equivalent experience. The successful student will need
to apply to ANU for enrollment, for international ap-
plicants ideally by this year's April 15 deadline. The
successful applicant will receive a stipend scholarship
and research funds, including computer and travel fund-
ing.
Location: We will be based in the Division of Ecology
and Evolution at the Research School of Biology at the
Australian National University in Canberra, Australia.
The project will also be supported by Zoos Victoria,
who hold a large captive population of the LHI stick
insects at Melbourne Zoo, and are closely involved with
the recovery eort on Lord Howe Island. Field work to
collect additional samples is likely to be involved.20 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Expression of interest: Expressions of interest should be
submitted directly to Alexander.Mikheyev@anu.edu.au.
International applicants should contact me by April 5,
2022, though the earlier the better so that we can co-
ordinate the ANU application due on the 15th. Please
include a brief statement on why you are interested in
this project, a CV and contact details for references.
Following assessment of applications one applicant will
then be invited to formally apply to the ANU. The
successful applicant will be able to start as soon as pos-
sible. You can also nd out more information about the
graduate program by clicking on the \Higher Degree by
Research" tab at http://biology.anu.edu.au/education/-
degree-programs alexander.mikheyev@anu.edu.au
BielefeldU MushroomGenomics
3-year PhD position: Genomic analysis of dispersal and
adaptation in porcini mushrooms
With Prof Joe Homan (Bielefeld University, Germany)
together with collaboration partners Prof. Bill Amos
(Cambridge University), Dr. Kanchon Dasmahapatra
(University of York, UK), Prof. Bryn Dentinger (Univer-
sity of Utah, USA), Prof. Thorunn Helgason (University
of York, UK), Dr. Minou Nowrousian (Ruhr-Universit at
Bochum, Germany), Dr. Ulrike Damm (Senckenberg
Museum of Natural History, G orlitz, Germany) and
Dr. Fernando Mart nez Pe na (Agri-food Research and
Technology Center of Aragon, Spain).
An outstanding opportunity is available for a PhD stu-
dent to work on the evolutionary genomics of porcini
mushrooms. The position is available in Joe Homan's
research group (www.thehomanlab.com) at the Depart-
ment of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University and
is fully funded for three years. It will combine eldwork
in Germany, the UK, France and Spain with lab-based
bioinformatic analysis of next generation sequencing
data.
The project: Ectomycorrhizal fungi (EMF) are critical
components of terrestrial ecosystems that play essential
roles in nutrient recycling. Consequently, there is a
pressing need to study their population dynamics and
life histories so as to better understand how ecosys-
tems function and persist. In particular, we need to
learn how EMF disperse, colonise new habitats, adapt
to their hosts and, in the longer term, speciate. This
project will focus on the iconic edible mushroom, Bole-
tus edulis, known variously as the penny bun, c epe deBordeaux, porcino or Steinpilz. It will exploit a large
collection of B. edulis samples to deliver arguably the
most comprehensive population genomic study of any
wild fungus. Systematic repeated sampling of multiple
woodland patches from Bielefeld (Germany) and Thet-
ford Forest (UK) will be used to investigate ne-scale
patterns of dispersal, population structure and adapta-
tion to dierent tree hosts. Overall, this project will
produce a detailed picture of how EMF populations
become established, spread and evolve. Understand-
ing these processes is essential for predicting ecosystem
responses to climate change.
The applicant: We seek a bright and highly motivated
student who holds a good rst degree and an M.Sc. or
equivalent in a relevant topic (e.g. molecular ecology,
fungal biology, population genomics, bioinformatics).
The ideal candidate will have strong quantitative skills,
including prociency in working in R and writing cus-
tom scripts. Practical experience of working with next
generation sequence data would be advantageous, but
full training will be provided. The candidate should also
be able to work both independently and as part of a
multidisciplinary team. A high standard of spoken and
written English is required.
The working environment: The PhD student will be
based at the Department of Animal Behaviour at
Bielefeld University, Germany (www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/vhf/index.html). The department is the oldest
of its kind in Germany and currently hosts seven princi-
pal investigators, nine postdocs and 15 PhD students.
It oers a stimulating, supportive and highly interna-
tional environment as well as an excellent research in-
frastructure. The working language of the Department
is English.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to the Teutoberger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It is an af-
fordable and pleasant city to live in and is well connected
to most major European cities.
The PhD student will be based at Bielefeld University
but will have ample opportunities to interact with the
international collaboration partners, who bring addi-
tional expertise in molecular ecology (Bill Amos), speci-
ation genomics (Kanchon Dasmahapatra), fungal biol-
ogy (Bryn Dentinger), plant-fungal interactions (Tho-
runn Helgason), fungal mating system evolution (Minou
Nowrousian), fungal systematics (Ulrike Damm) and
mycological conservation (Fernando Mart nez Pe na).
The successful applicant will therefore benet from an
integrative, multidisciplinary training that will prepare
her/him very well for a scientic career in molecular
ecology / fungal biology / population genomics / con-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 21
servation biology.
Remuneration: This generous PhD studentship is
funded by the German Science Foundation (DFG) for
a period of three years and includes health insurance.
The pay scale is TVL E13 (65%). Funding will also
be available for travel and for the student to attend
workshops and conferences.
Application procedure: To apply for this position, please
provide: (i) a letter of motivation including a maximum
2-page statement of your research interests, relevant
skills and experience; (ii) a CV including publication
list; (iii) names and contact details of two referees willing
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU AllopolyploidEvolution
PhD position in Plant Cytogenetics
Department of Botany, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic seeks a PhD student in Cytogenetics /
Evolutionary Biology. Preferred starting date for this
position is the 1th September 2022 (with some exibil-
ity).
This PhD position aims at evolutionary history of al-
lopolyploid representatives in the genus Hieracium using
cytogenetic and molecular (RADseq) approach. The
PhD position is a part of the Czech Science Foundation
(GA~AR) project lead by Jindich Chrtek (PI, Institute
of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences) and Patrik Mr az
(co-PI, Department of Botany, Charles University), and
will be closely coordinated with Alexander Belyayev
(Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences).
Hieracium s.str. (Asteraceae) is a large holarctic genus
with a majority of triploid and tetraploid taxa stabilized
by asexual seed reproduction. It has been proved that
interspecic hybridization deeply shaped evolutionary
patterns in the genus and together with polyploidization
have triggered a one of the most intricate evolutionary
transition in angiosperms - the switch from from sexual
to asexual (apomictic) reproduction. Because gene ow
between apomictic individuals is impeded or severely re-
duced, hybridogeneous apomictic populations can retain
intact genotypes / genomes of their parental species,and thus can testify of past contact and subsequent local
extinction of their parental lineages.
The aim of the PhD project is to (i)determine the
parental genomic contributions in genomes of selected
apomictic allopolyploids, (ii)assesses putative chromo-
somal re-patterning that could be indicative for rare
sexual events in apomicts, and (iii)provide karyotype
evolution of diploid representatives of the genus. In
addition to genomic (GISH) and uorescence in situ hy-
bridization (FISH) approach, which will include also an
application of specic chromosomal markers developed
by A. Belyayev's team, the PhD candidate will analyse
breeding systems (using ow cytometric seed screening)
and will participate on preparation of RADseq libraries.
Prole & qualication
Highly motivated applicants with excellent communica-
tion skills and English, and deep interest in evolutionary
biology should hold a MSc or equivalent degree in biol-
ogy. Previous experience with karyology, molecular or
cytogenetic techniques is an advantage but not require-
ment.
Founding
Accepted applicant will be supported by a salary from
three years project (2022-2024) by the Czech Science-
Foundation (GA ~AR). In addition, a four years PhD
fellowship will be provided by the Faculty of Sciences.
Application
Please send your motivation letter including your CV
and contact details of two references as asingle pdf by
e-mail to: Patrik Mr az, mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz before
the 4th April 2022.
For any further details write to mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz
https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/apomixisgroup/ https:/-
/botany.natur.cuni.cz/mraz Patrik Mr az Herbarium
PRC & Department of Botany
Charles University,Faculty of Science Ben atsk a
2, 128 01 Praha 2 CZECHIA Tel.: +420 221 95
1642 https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/prc/?lang=en
https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/apomixisgroup/
https://botany.natur.cuni.cz/mraz Patrik Mr az
<mrazpat@natur.cuni.cz >22 EvolDir April 1, 2022
CharlesU Prague
EvolutionGenomicsFishes LASTcall
LAST CALL: A PhD position in the Fish Evolution
research group at Department of Zoology, Charles Uni-
versity in Prague, Czech Republic:
*Topic:* Hemoglobin evolution in riverine and deep-sea
shes
We search for a highly motivated student interested
in the evolution of hemoglobin genes in shes. In our
research group we study several groups of genes and
their evolution in shes. We mostly focus on the sensory
genes (visual photoreceptors, olfactory receptor genes,
etc.), but hemoglobins are our target too. We generally
integrate genomics and transcriptomics to reconstruct
the evolution of the gene function and we try to un-
derstand the complex story of adaptation to extreme
environments at the molecular level. We currently plan
to employ advanced molecular methods, such as single-
cell transcriptomics and in-vitro engineering to discover
and describe the mechanisms of molecular adaptation
and evolution in the hemoglobin genes.
*We oer:* 4-years PhD position starting in October
2022 in a dynamic international research team with
several postdocs, PhD and MSc students, access to fas-
cinating sh samples from the deep sea, as well as from
European rivers. Possibility for own idea development
within the framework of the PhD project. We oer
a substantial salary (380'000 CZK annually in netto
(!), equal to the average national salary in the Czech
Republic) + PhD students at Charles University have
options to increase their salary by by development in
their duties (e.g. exams and early publications).
*We require*: PhD candidate with motivation and en-
thusiasm for biology, nature and science; uency in
English; a M.Sc. degree in biology or related elds (or
to be nished by September 2022).
*We desire*: The candidate should ideally have at least
basic experience from the molecular wet lab, as well
as some bioinformatics skills (experience with genetic
data highly benecial), or with ability and willingness
to learn it. Any potential experience with physiology
experiments would also be benecial and could be added
to the project. The expected role of the student in the
project is in preparation of the NGS libraries, analysing
the genomic and transcriptomic data, (therefore, basicunderstanding of the unix environment would be quite
useful) and performing additional experiments built up
on the results. While the project is mainly molecular,
we generally aim to make cool stories out of our ndings,
and we aim to tell it in the context of evolution, sh
and their life. The candidate is expected to present
his/her project at international conferences and will be
authoring research publications. All nations applicable.
*Start*: October 2022, Duration: 4 years.
*Deadline*: 31st March 2022 (the candidate has to be
assigned to the position by the mid/end of April).
All questions and applications (CV + half-page motiva-
tion letter + contact details for two persons who can be
asked for a reference) should be sent directly to Zuzana
Musilova (zuzmus@gmail.com or zuzana.musilova@
natur.cuni.cz).
THANK YOU FOR YOUR APPLICATION:-)
zuzmus <zuzmus@gmail.com >
CheetahConservationFund Namibia
ConsGenetics
Genetics PhD project at the Cheetah Conservation Fund,
Namibia
The Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), Namibia, is
currently looking for a highly motivated individual to
join the on-site genetics laboratory to conduct a PhD
project. The genetics laboratory is part of CCF's re-
search and conservation eorts. CCF is a non-prot
NGO dedicated to the conservation of the cheetah, and
is registered as a research centre in Namibia. CCF does
not award degrees but has ongoing collaborations with
various universities.
The project will address various aspects of cheetah genet-
ics, and includes landscape genetics and the investigation
of several genes. Details on the project are available
during the selection process. The project methodology
is based on classic markers using capillary electrophore-
sis and includes analysis of existing data as well as
processing of samples to expand the dataset(s).
The prospective student is expected to have an MSc
in a relevant eld and to qualify for PhD studies. The
choice of the University is exible and can be discussed
as part of the selection process. The student is expected
to move to CCF for the duration of the PhD and to be
registered with a university prior to moving to Namibia.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 23
Basic level funding is available for the project, including
funds to partially support the student. The student is
also expected to seek out funding in support of the PhD
project. CCF will provide guidance and support for the
development of proposals.
The successful candidate should be prepared to follow
best laboratory practices in molecular biology/genetics
and have good attention to detail. Knowledge in GIS
is desired but not required. The successful candidate
will contribute to the functioning of the laboratory be-
yond the scope of the PhD project and must have good
communication skills.
The project is available immediately. Applicants
should send their CV, letter of motivation, and con-
tact details of 3 references to genetics@cheetah.org
<mailto:genetics@cheetah.org >.
The genetics laboratory is located at the CCF research
centre, about 40 km east of Otjiwarongo, Namibia.
Many sta members and students live in CCF hous-
ing on campus. Further information regarding CCF
and its mission to conserve cheetahs in the wild may be
found at www.cheetah.org <http://www.cheetah.org
>.
Anne Schmidt-K >1
2ntzel, DMV, PhD
Assistant Director for Animal Health and Research Life
Technologies Conservation Genetics Laboratory
Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF) www.cheetah.org
Email: genetics@cheetah.org Tel (CCF general number):
+264 67 306 225
genetics@cheetah.org genetics@cheetah.org
CityU London CancerEvolution
A funded PhD position is available supervised by Rob
Noble and Mark Broom in the Department of Mathe-
matics at City, University of London.
The successful candidate will use mathematical methods
to investigate cancer evolution. The aim is to develop
a general mathematical understanding of how the di-
verse evolutionary modes observed in human tumours
arise from their evolutionary parameter values and spa-
tial structures, extending recent results obtained using
stochastic simulations (Noble et al. Nature Ecology &
Evolution, 2021). This map from parameters to emer-
gent biological properties has important implicationsfor cancer prevention, prognosis, and treatment.
The project will involve some combination of computa-
tional modelling, analysis of spatial stochastic processes,
evolutionary theory, and data analysis, according to the
successful candidate's interests and expertise. Results
will be compared to clinical data.
The student will join a group of mathematical biologists
working on projects related to cancer, stochastic models,
structured populations, and multiplayer games. They
will benet from the supervisors' international networks
of collaborators in mathematical oncology and cancer
evolution.
Eligibility and requirements:
The candidate should have (or will soon have) a good
honours degree in mathematics, physics, computational
biology or another scientic discipline that has equipped
them with strong analytical skills.
Especially competitive candidates will have training in
stochastic processes, some computer programming skills
(e.g. in Python, C, or R), and a demonstrable interest
in answering biological or biomedical questions. Prior
research experience in mathematical biology is desirable
but not essential.
Funding:
The studentship is for 3 years and will provide full cover-
age of tuition fees (Home and Overseas) and an annual
tax-free stipend of 12,000.
Each student would also have the opportunity to earn
around 2.2K pa on an average (max. is around 4.3K
pa) through a teaching assistantship. We shall prioritise
these scholarship holders while allocating the teaching
assistantships.
Deadline: 15th April 2022.
For further details and application instructions
please visit https://www.city.ac.uk/prospective-
students/nance/funding/investigate-cancer-evolution-
studentship . Robert Noble
Lecturer, Department of Mathematics City, University
of London Northampton Square, London EC1V 0HB
www.city.ac.uk robjohnnoble.github.io
\Noble, Robert" <Robert.Noble@city.ac.uk >24 EvolDir April 1, 2022
CzechAcademy 2
PopulationGenetics
Two PhDs in Community Ecology & Population Genet-
ics
We invite prospective candidates for two four-year fully-
funded PhD Studentships to explore exciting questions
on the interface of community ecology and population
genetics. How do species coexist in diverse communities?
And how is genetic variation maintained within popula-
tions? These processes are typically studied separately,
but likely interact to structure diversity in ecological
communities. For example, rapid evolution is likely to
have a key role in determining species coexistence.
To address these questions, our collaborative project
uses a novel experimental community model system
of wild Drosophila species and their parasitoids from
tropical Australia. We are able to perform multigen-
erational laboratory microcosm experiments and track
eco-evolutionary dynamics in ne detail. We are of-
fering two positions - one more focused on community
ecology and the other on population genetics. The can-
didates will use a combination of some of the following
approaches: laboratory experiments on maintenance of
species diversity in communities and maintenance of
genetic variation, experimental evolution, genome-wide
association studies, eco-evolutionary modelling, popula-
tion genomics using whole genome data, and eld sur-
veys of Drosophila - parasitoid food webs in Australian
tropical rainforest. The specic PhD chapter projects
will result from a discussion between the candidate and
the supervisor.
The successful applicant will join the Laboratory of
Experimental Ecology [ http://lab.hrcek.net ] at the Bi-
ology Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences, Ceske Bude-
jovice, Czech Republic, under the supervision of Dr Jan
Hrcek. The laboratory is a multinational team of post-
docs, PhD students and technicians and the applicant
will have the opportunity to work extensively with other
team members. The laboratory obtained prestigious
high-level funding for ve years (ERC-CZ grant) and
therefore can provide substantial resources and support
for exceptional research. The laboratory is part of the
Department of Ecology, a dynamic international centre
for research on interaction networks.
Together with each PhD student we will choose aco-supervisor from current international collabora-
tors (listed at the bottom of [ http://lab.hrcek.net/-
people.html ] page) or start new collaborations. The
position will include a research stay abroad.
The deadline for applications is 6th May 2022. The
positions can start from August 2022 onwards. The
students will receive a salary which comfortably covers
living expenses in the Czech Republic. The working
language is English and applicants from all countries
are eligible. A MSc degree is required to enter PhD in
Czech Republic. Following experience is an advantage:
- Research experience with laboratory experiments, in-
sect ecology or molecular ecology - Experience in eco-
evolutionary dynamics or population genetic modelling
- Experience with population genetics - Driving licence
and eldwork experience
To apply please send one document comprising a CV,
contact details for two references, and a motivation
letter to Jan Hrcek [ janhrcek@gmail.com ].
Jan Hrcek <janhrcek@gmail.com >
Frankfurt
ComparativeVertebrateGenomics
Job Announcement ref. #12-22004
PhD Position in Comparative Vertebrate Genomics
The Hiller Lab at the LOEWE Center for Translational
Biodiversity Genomics (TBG) in Frankfurt, Germany
is looking for an ambitious PhD student to investigate
the genomic basis of phenotypic dierences between
vertebrates.
The Project
The project aims at linking phenotypic adaptations
to genomic dierences, which is a central goal in the
genomics era. The PhD student will capitalize on a
number of new long-read based genomes that we are se-
quencing in a collaborative project as well as a powerful
repertoire of comparative methods to trace key genomic
dierences in genes and regulatory elements. We plan
to investigate the genomic underpinnings of many in-
teresting adaptations including metabolic, physiological
and morphological traits in bats and other mammals,
reptiles and shes. The PhD student will work closely
with other members of our lab, the TBG lab center
and students from other collaborating institutes on all
computational and experimental aspects.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 25
Our lab
The mission of our group is to understand how nature's
fascinating phenotypic diversity has evolved and how
it is encoded in the genome. Work in the lab includes
sequencing and assembly of reference-quality genomes,
genome alignment and annotation, development and
application of comparative genomic methods to discover
dierences in genes and cis-regulatory elements, and
the use of statistical approaches to link phenotypic to
genomic changes [1-9].
Our lab is part of TBG (https://tbg.senckenberg.de/)
and Senckenberg Research Society, and is based near
the city center of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. TBG
provides access to cutting-edge computational (HPC
clusters, genome browser) and lab infrastructure to se-
quence genomes. English is the working language in
our lab. Senckenberg and TBG provide exible working
hours, an annual special payment, a company pension
scheme, the Senckenberg badge for free entry in mu-
seums, the zoo, botanical garden and Palmengarten,
a leave of 30 days per year, and a subsidy job ticket
for public transport. Frankfurt is a vibrant and highly-
international city at the heart of Europe that combines
a skyscraper skyline with ample park and green areas.
Requirements
Applicants should have a degree in bioinformat-
ics/computational biology, genomics or a related area,
and a strong publication record. Solid programming
skills in a Linux environment and experience with shell
scripting and Unix tools are required. Previous experi-
ence in large-scale comparative genomic data analysis
is an advantage.
Place of employment: Frankfurt am Main
Type of contract: 3 years
Salary and benets: according to the collective agree-
ment of the State of Hesse
(pay grade E13 75% TV-H)
The position is fully funded and should ideally start as
soon as possible.
The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r
Naturforschung who supports equal opportunity of men
and women and therefore strongly invites women to
apply. Equally qualied handicapped applicants will be
given preference.
How to apply
Please send your application, mentioning the refer-
ence of this job oer (ref.#12-22004), by e-mail to
Michael Hiller (michael.hiller@senckenberg.de) and re-
cruiting@senckenberg.de.The application should include the reference of this job
oer, a CV with a publication list and contact infor-
mation for at least two references, and a summary of
previous research experience (max 1 page), and copies
of certicates, transcripts and grades.
The application deadline is April 4th, 2022.
For more information please contact Prof. Dr. Michael
Hiller, michael.hiller@senckenberg.de or use the follow-
ing link: https://tbg.senckenberg.de/personen/hiller/
Recent publications
[1] Blumer et al. Gene losses in the common vampire
bat illuminate molecular adaptations to blood feeding.
Science Advances, 2022
[2] Roscito et al. Convergent and lineage-specic ge-
nomic dierences in limb regulatory elements in limbless
reptile lineages. Cell Reports, 38(3):110280, 2022
[3] Jebb et al. Six reference-quality genomes reveal evo-
lution of bat adaptations. Nature, 583, 578-584, 2020
[4] Huelsmann et al. Genes lost during the transi-
tion from land to water in cetaceans highlight genomic
changes associated with aquatic adaptations. Science
Advances, 5(9), eaaw6671, 2019
[5] Hecker et al. Convergent gene losses illuminate
metabolic and physiological changes in herbivores and
carnivores. PNAS, 116(8), 3036-3041, 2019
[6] Roscito et al. Phenotype loss is associated with
widespread divergence of the gene regulatory landscape
in evolution. Nature Communications, 9:4737, 2018
[7] Lee et al. Molecular parallelism in fast-twitch muscle
proteins in echolocating mammals. Science Advances,
4(9), eaat9660, 2018
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
KielU 14
TranslationalEvolutionaryResearch
*14 PhD positions within the Research Training Group
\Translational Evolutionary Research"*
The Kiel University, the University Hospital Schleswig-
Holstein (UKSH), the Max-Planck-Institute for Evo-26 EvolDir April 1, 2022
lutionary Biology in Pl on, the Helmholtz Center for
Ocean Research Kiel (GEOMAR), the Research Center
Borstel (Leibniz Lung Center), the Kiel Institute for the
World Economy (IfW) and the Max-Rubner-Institute
Kiel (MRI) oer
*14 PhD positions **within the Research Training Group
\Translational Evolutionary Research" (3 year and 2.5
months xed-term positions, 65% TV-L, TV- ~AD E13)*.
The graduate school aims at studying the relevance of
evolutionary principles to applied problems. Unintended
outcomes of human intervention often result from ac-
tions that inuence natural selection. For example, the
usage of antibiotics or anti-cancer drugs in medicine, of
pesticides in agriculture, or human perturbation of the
earth's ecosystems directly change natural selection and
thereby aect the evolution of organisms. Surprisingly,
evolutionary concepts are only rarely used to improve
our understanding of these applied challenges and to
develop new sustainable solutions. The RTG will train
PhD students in the competences to do so.
This RTG is a joint initiative of Kiel University, the Uni-
versity Hospital Schleswig-Holstein (UKSH), the Max-
Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Pl on, the
Helmholtz Center for Ocean Research Kiel (GEOMAR),
the Research Center Borstel (Leibniz Lung Center), the
Kiel Institute for the World Economy (IfW) and the
Max-Rubner-Institute Kiel (MRI). The RTG oers an
internationally competitive research environment with
state-of-the-art facilities. The participating groups use
a variety of dierent methods, including evolutionary
experimental, molecular, genomic, and theoretical ap-
proaches.
The graduate program starts with a *rotation period
of 2.5 months *(with an initial employment at Kiel
University)* followed by a PhD project of three years*
(employment by one of the involved institutions) includ-
ing seminars, courses and workshops. The language of
the graduate school is English. PhD projects are oered
as tandem projects (i.e., two related PhD projects) and
cover the following topics:
*1) **Evolutionary management of harvested popula-
tions *
*1.1 PI Thorsten Reusch: Fisheries-induced evolution *
*1.2 PI Martin Quaas: Evolutionary shery economics
and management*
*2) **Plant breeding and disease control *
*2.1 PI Christian Jung: Genetic analysis of leaf spot
resistance*
*2.2 PI Eva Stukenbrock: Plant pathogen evolution on
cultivated and wild plant hosts**3) **Plasmid-mediated resistance spread in food pro-
duction *
*3.1 PI Tal Dagan: Plasmid evolution in the food indus-
try *
*3.2 PI Hildegard Uecker: Mathematical modeling of
the evolution and spread of plasmid mediated antibiotic
resistance*
*4) **Evolution of human pathogens under antibiotic
therapy *
*4.1 PI Stefan Niemann: Adaptation of Mtbc to antibi-
otic treatment*
*4.2 PI Hinrich Schulenburg: Ecacy of sequential ther-
apy against clinical *Pseudomonas
*5) **Fecal microbiota transplants in inammatory
bowel disease*
*5.1 PI Charles Franz: Relationship between Lactobacil-
lus diversity and host FUT2 genotype*
*5.2 PI John Baines: Evaluating the gut microbiome for
adaptation to host Fut2 genotype*
*6) **The role of the immune system in life-history
evolution*
*6.1 PI Almut Nebel: Immune genetics and longevity in
humans*
*6.2 PI Olivia Roth: Coevolution of the immune system
with sex-role, male pregnancy and longevity*
*7) **Role of cellular plasticity in the evolution and
ecology of therapy resistance *in *pancreatic cancer*
*7.1 PI Susanne Sebens: Experimental analysis of cel-
lular plasticity in the evolution and ecology of therapy
resistance in pancreatic cancer*
*7.2 PI Arne Traulsen: Mathematical modelling of the
evolution and ecology of pancreatic cancer cells under
therapy *
*To obtain further information on our PhD program,
the PhD topics, and application details please visit:
**https://transevo.de/* <https://transevo.de/ >
Motivated and highly qualied candidates are welcome
to apply. A Master of Science degree or a Diploma as
well as a strong interest in Evolutionary Biology are
prerequisites for entering the program. (You will nd
more information about the employment requirements
with the project descriptions below). We are looking
forward to your application for a PhD project in the
beautiful landscape of Northern Germany.
*The deadline for applications is April 21, 2022.*
The selection days will be held from June 22-24, 2022.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 27
The program itself starts on October 1, 2022 (a later
start date is possible).
The University of Kiel sees itself as a modern and cos-
mopolitan employer. We welcome your application re-
gardless of your age, gender, cultural and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LinnaeusU FishAdaptation
Linnaeus University Kalmar: Graduate student position
in sh ecology
Phd-Student Position: Fish Ecology & Behaviour
4 years fully funded
Environmental eects on reproduction and survival
Biologging (acoustic telemetry, body acceleration),
molecular work and experimental work
Based in Kalmar, Sweden
Application Deadline 25th of April 2022
Job description The timing of life-history events such as
migration and reproduction (i.e. phenology) inuences
the environmental conditions that organisms experience
during these stages, and can aect reproductive suc-
cess and survival. Timing life-history stages to match
whenever conditions are suitable is thus crucial for the
success of individuals and populations. With environ-
mental conditions and seasonality currently changing
due to climate change, there is an urgent need of im-
proving our understanding of whether and how environ-
mental change, across and within years, may result in
phenological mismatches with impacts on biodiversity
and ecosystem function. This 4-year, fully funded, PhD
project investigates the consequences of changing en-
vironments on phenology, life-history traits, migration
patterns, habitat utilization and species interactions
of Baltic Sea coastal predators (e.g. pike, perch and
cormorants).
We are looking for a skilled and motivated PhD stu-
dent with a passion for sh ecology, spatial ecology,
food web and/or movement ecology. The research will
utilise a combination of remote biologging (acoustic andGPS transmitters on sh and birds respectively), molec-
ular methods and manipulation experiments in both
eld and laboratory settings. This project is part of
a larger multidisciplinary project within the Linnaeus
University Centre for Ecology and Evolution in Micro-
bial model Systems EEMiS that seeks to understand
the consequences of environmental change on phenology
and interaction strengths across trophic levels in the
coastal food web of the Baltic Sea.
Requirements MSc or equivalent Specic requirements
is also a high prociency in written and spoken English.
Selection criteria include experience with: Working
within Aquatic Ecology, Fish Ecology, Movement Ecol-
ogy and/or Spatial Ecology Statistical analysis of big
data Data management and R programming Remote
biologging techniques (e.g. acoustic telemetry)
Fieldwork Mechanistic laboratory and eld experiments
Molecular methods Scientic publishing Holding a
driver's license (class B) Experience of driving and work-
ing from boat Important personal qualities are to be
creative, good at problem-solving, a team-worker, inde-
pendent, resilient, and structured.
For more information, please contact: Head of depart-
ment: Jonas Waldenstr om, jonas.waldenstrom@lnu.se
Research leader: Petter Tibblin, petter.tibblin@lnu.se.
HR partner: Leif Eriksson, leif.eriksson@lnu.se
Union representatives can be reached through the uni-
versity switchboard: +46-(0)772-28 80 00.
To apply The application (in English) should contain a
CV (with telephone, e-mail, and contact details of two
reference persons), documentation of exams and grades,
and a description of motivation and experience relevant
to the position.
All documents cited must be received by the university
no later than 24.00 (Local time in Sweden) on the clos-
ing day April 25, 2022. Start date will be as soon as
possible.
Full advertisement & link to the application portal:
https://lnu.se/en/meet-linnaeus-university/work-at-
the-university/?rmpage=job&rmjob=6593&rmlang=-
UK Markus Z ottl <markus.zottl@lnu.se >28 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Macaronesia BirdSongEvolution
X-MS-Has-Attach: X-MS-Exchange-Inbox-
Rules-Loop: golding@mcmaster.ca X-MS-
TNEF-Correlator: authentication-results:
spf=pass (sender IP is 209.85.128.47)
smtp.mailfrom=gmail.com; dkim=pass (signature
was veried) header.d=gmail.com;dmarc=pass
action=none header.from=gmail.com;compauth=pass
reason=0 received-spf: Pass (protection.outlook.com:
domain of gmail.com designates 209.85.128.47 as per-
mitted sender) receiver=protection.outlook.com;
client-ip 9.85.128.47; helo=mail-wm1-
f47.google.com; dkim-signature: v=1; a=rsa-
sha256; c=relaxed/relaxed; d=gmail.com; s 210112;
h=mime-version:from:date:message-id:subject:to;
bh=AT2KFJB2xvNIhjBzX5UtwJtSZVSrWipToW8Gb4pN0=;
b=LTm2FkBKw4pPKEm3g5ysE2t+MMrIznOC9Ne+2M1pscVA1W/6HfbVlMw20/QynNl/t+
LkHCEvpvT7clAkOIHWQltqSdyXKzZhQJTfmN6GUH6SdkDljBoqwIkDo97mQI+tLd2FiU
bPniSTpiBEMeol1AMqkWSXeXFtR20t5JZn3Vl35saKMIgD4p71wN5XTwJLcsmgI1PlCX
/PdxT6l2sefHmPWoB6s+uMibUgWd2Uhmpce+RXpmZsrZFBk7yvUte9hdOkClOf/fE6tT
ZXMbyTjezKu8EVXQSn6VyTtQNmiyV9rE+UWkVH+ikvUpkCwoUZ87nZOQeHH7SWS/EQJ1
xfRA=x-google-dkim-signature: v=1; a=rsa-
sha256; c=relaxed/relaxed; d100.net;
s 210112; h=x-gm-message-state:mime-
version:from:date:message-id:subject:to;
bh=AT2KFJB2xvNIhjBzX5UtwJtSZVSrWipToW8Gb4pN0=;
b=6VMD7Upa9mfH6cTYQFBnkmNchvdTiI7Np435DaE197JGicikUCikTEL/4bGl3iSxKF
gaHhxh+/uPzae7idNtjN/bGs2mbdpxm4geJpt8C8QF1IAwDmkwJNHQHT56JoM+9di1Dr
j51ZEApO/xbn/vewPa5WyWMx0VR0x8fYLNGorGuo64ckZLq0yBXG/ftbnQqTTOUgCBhH
3tzxKmhcJctHzkwcAHmih2Uf7Cxre7IORyTS/RBuID/fRmEcJp+w4ijufJt+rpCy75yT
8f7dSm5t8oH1Gi71hehLS+Cjjit0O79eARf4kutP5rYkcKk/wRxggfcjtIo6dsH16dC1
xX7A=x-gm-message-state:
AOAM533xZUClWYDNbUC0xE/wiUlgreLSyjzjqX11hzPPEbf15KnZ8bSS
QQKmoZ80uuSwiyh/oRadZkFwKYSC5iZW61REcb2hFxmzKfqND/vp
x-google-smtp-source: ABdhPJxgsnhlUlkTm4G5RuEDiPOqWvklzCO3lx6Enxbpee1j+uwbteuHDMXon7kAKO6iOT0SZfBfs3sMeCU2+rfSncYx-
received: by 2002:a05:600c:3d98:b0:381:7aac:c44c
with SMTP id bi24-
20020a05600c3d9800b003817aacc44cmr5103659wmb.174.1646132702712;
Tue, 01 Mar 2022 03:05:02 -0800 (PST) x-pmx-version-
mac: 6.0.3.2322014, Antispam-Engine: 2.7.2.2107409,
Antispam-Data: 2022.3.1.105715 x-perlmx-spam:
Gauge=IIIIIIII, Probability=8%, Report=' EU TLD
0.1, BODYTEXTH SIZE 10000 LESS 0, BODY-
TEXTH SIZE 3000 MORE 0, DKIM ALIGNS 0,
DKIM SIGNATURE 0, FROM NAME PHRASE
0, HTML BAD EXTRAS 0, IMGSPAM TABLE 1
0, KNOWN MTA TFX 0, LINK TOIMAGE0, SENDER NOAUTH 0, SXL IPTFX WM 0,
TEXT DIRECTION 0, TEXT DIR LTR ONLY
0, WEBMAIL SOURCE 0, ANY URI 0,
BODY TEXT X4 0, CPURI INBODY
0, CT 0, CTYPE HAS BOUNDARY
0, CTYPE MULTIPART 0,
CTYPE MULTIPART ALT 0, DKIM ALIGNS 1
0, DKIM ALIGNS 2 0, DQNEG HEUR 0,
DQNEG IP 0, FRAUD BODY WEBMAIL 0,
FRAUD PARTNERSHIP 0, FRAUD WEBMAIL
0, FRAUD WEBMAIL FROM 0,
FROM DOMAIN NOT INBODY 0,
FROM GMAIL 0, FROM NAME NOT INADDR
0, FROM NAME NOT INBODY 0,
FROM UTF Q 0, FUR HEADER 0,
FUR RDNS GMAIL 0, HAS FROM 0,
HAS HTML 0, HAS MSGID 0, HELO GMAIL 0,
HEX28 LCBOUNDARY 0, HREF LABEL IMG
0, HREF LABEL TEXT 0, HREF LABEL URI
0, HTML AHREF TAG 0, HTML ATTR DIR
0, HTML BAD END 0, HTML BAD START
0, HTML DIR LTR 0, HTML HREF TAG X2
0, HTML TAG DIV 0, HTML TAG TABLE
0, HTTPS URI 0, HTTP IMAGE TAG 0,
IMGSPAM TABLE 1 0, IMG THEN TEXT 0,
INVOICE MULTILINGUAL 0, MIME HTML
0, MIME TEXT H 0, MIME TEXT H1
0, MIME TEXT H2 0, MIME TEXT P 0,
MIME TEXT P1 0, MIME TEXT P2 0,
MIME VERSION 0, MULTIPLE URI HTML
0,MULTIPLE URI TEXT 0, RDNS WEBMAIL
0,SANE MSGID 0, SEXTORTION MALWARE
0, SUBJ ALPHA END 0, TEXT DIR LTR 0,
TONONAME 0, URI HAS HYPHEN USC 0,
URI INBODY 0, URI INBODY HTTP X10
0, URI MAILTO 0, URI NOT IMG
0, URI NS , URI WITHOUT PATH 0,
URI WITH PATH 0, XGMMESSAGE STATE
0, XGOOGLE DKIM SIGNATURE
0, XGOOGLE SMTP SOURCE 0,
YOUTUBE RCVD 0' x-eopattributedmessage:
0 x-ms-exchange-skiplistedinternetsender:
ip=[209.85.128.47];domain=mail-wm1-f47.google.com
x-ms-exchange-externaloriginalinternetsender:
ip=[209.85.128.47];domain=mail-wm1-f47.google.com
x-ms-publictractype: Email x-ms-oce365-
ltering-correlation-id: 3cb41991-8a2e-4cdd-
f9f5-08d9fb735871 x-ms-tractypediagnostic:
QB1PR01MB2995:EE jYT4PR01MB9831:EE jYT2PR01MB5661:EE
x-microsoft-antispam: BCL:0; x-forefront-antispam-
report:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 29
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Macaronesia EvolutionBirdSong
BSc/MSc project: Evolution of Berthelot's Pipit song
in Macaronesia
Are you interested in the eld of behavioural ecology
and bioacoustics? At the Bioacoustics Group of Charles
University (Prague, Czech Republic), we are looking for
a highly motivated student to join our team to study
the evolution of song in Berthelot's pipits.
Berthelot's Pipit (Anthus berthelotii) is a sedentary and
endemic species to three of the Macaronesian archipela-
gos: Madeira, Selvagens, and the Canary Islands. The
colonization history of this species has been recon-
structed from genetic and morphological data, however,
patterns of song evolution between its populations, natu-
rally fragmented over the evolutionary timescale, remain
unknown.
Birdsong develops under the inuence of vocal learning
and is culturally transmitted. By learning from parents
and neighbours, cultural transmission may maintain
certain song types within populations over generations.
If considered in terms of speciation, song learning might
accelerate song divergence, and potentially contribute
to allopatric speciation when populations become ge-
ographically isolated (e.g., islands separated by ocean
barriers). Because oceanic islands are geographically dis-
crete units, they provide suitable systems to understand
evolutionary diversication processes.
The main aim of this project will be to explore the
intraspecic geographic variation of songs in this insular
species, and this way assess if islands and archipelagos
have matching patterns of acoustic and genetic dieren-
tiation.
This project is data-based since recordings from most
of the islands have been already collected. The main
task of the prospective student will be to measure and
analyze these recordings using bioacoustics software.
Experience using bioacoustics software is welcome but
not essential; if needed, the student can be trained in
the use of specialized software for bioacoustics studies
such as the widely used Avisoft and the up-and-coming
Luscinia.
The project is suitable for BSc or MSc Students thatwant to conduct their thesis abroad or for short trainee-
ships (e.g. one semester). Students from European
universities can get money to cover/reduce monthly liv-
ing costs by applying for Erasmus funding at their home
institutions (e.g. Erasmus + traineeship grant). More
information about Erasmus + traineeship programme:
https://erasmus-plus.ec.europa.eu/opportunities/-
individuals/students/traineeship-student If interested,
please contact Tereza Petruskov a (kumstatova@post.cz.)
Do you want to know more about our research
group? Check the following link: https:/-
/www.natur.cuni.cz/biology/ecology/research/-
ongoing-projects/bioacoustic-research-group/about
ResearchGate: https://www.researchgate.net/lab/-
Bioacoustics-Group-Tereza-Petruskova Twitter:
@Bioacoustics CU
Virus-free. www.avast.com
Javier O nate Casado <javiatocha@gmail.com >
MaxPlanckInst Jena
HostDiseaseBehaviour
Parasitism and social behaviour in ants
We invite applications for a fully funded PhD position
to work on the behavioural and chemical ecology of ne-
matode infections in ants with the groups of Yuko Ulrich
(ulrichlab.com) and Markus Knaden (ice.iwww.mpg.de/-
228656/odor-guided-behavior) at the Max Planck Insti-
tute for Chemical Ecology in Jena, Germany.
Background: Parasites can aect virtually any aspect
of host biology, including behavior. Eects range from
manipulations of host behavior that increase parasite
transmission to changes in host social behaviour (e.g.,
social distancing) that reduce transmission. Social in-
sects and their parasites include some of the best-known
examples of behavioral eects at both ends of this spec-
trum (1, 2), but the mechanisms driving these changes
are rarely known.
Nematodes of the genus Diploscapter infect the postpha-
ryngeal gland of ants (3), an organ involved in the spread
of cuticular hydrocarbons among nestmates. Cuticu-
lar hydrocarbons play a central role in communication
within ant societies: they are the basis for the formation
of a \colony odor", which is in turn used for nestmate
recognition (i.e, self vs. non-self discrimination) (4). It
is currently unknown whether nematode infections in30 EvolDir April 1, 2022
the postpharyngeal gland can aect the ants' nestmate
discrimination ability, and if so, what the consequences
on aggressive behavior, colony composition, and parasite
transmission are.
Project Description: You will combine behavioural and
chemical analyses to study the eect of experimental
infections with Diploscapter nematodes in the clonal
raider ant Ooceraea biroi (5), an emerging model for
the study of social behaviour (6). You will investigate
whether and how nematodes aect ant cuticular hydro-
carbon proles and the ability of ants to discriminate
nestmates from non-nestmates, and how this in turn
aects the transmission success of the parasite and the
tness of host colonies. Depending on your interests, this
project can develop to address more detailed questions
on the sensory and nutritional aspects of the interaction
between host and parasite, intergenerational eects of
infections on the host, or comparative approaches using
other ant-nematode species pairs. The project provides
opportunities for internal and external collaborations.
Candidate prole:
- Master's degree (or equivalent) in biology or related
eld
- Proactive, dynamic, and curious
- Excellent communication and organizational skills
- Prociency in written and spoken English
- Experience with behavioural assays or chemical analy-
ses in insects are desirable but not necessary
Applications should be submitted online through
the online portal of the graduate school (Interna-
tional Max Planck Research School, IMPRS): https:/-
/www.ice.mpg.de/296548/current-call by May 6, 2022.
Informal inquiries about the position can be addressed
to Yuko Ulrich (yulrich@ice.mpg.de).
The Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology provides
a thriving, international, and multidisciplinary research
environment, state-of-the-art facilities and equipment,
and world-class colleagues working on evolutionary bi-
ology, and insect chemical ecology and neuroethology.
The working language of the institute is English. For
more information, please visit www.ice.mpg.de. The
Max Planck Society is committed to equal opportunities
and diversity (www.mpg.de/equal opportunities). We
welcome qualied applicants from all backgrounds.
References:
1. D. P. Hughes, F. Libersat, Parasite manipulation of
host behavior. Curr. Biol. 29, R45-R47 (2019).
2. S. Cremer, S. A. Armitage, P. Schmid-Hempel, Social
immunity. Curr. Biol. 17, R693-702 (2007).3. G. J. Poinar, Nematode Parasites and Associates of
Ants: Past and Present. Psyche 2012, (2012).
4. P. P. Sprenger, F. Menzel, Cuticular hydrocarbons
in ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) and other insects:
how and why they dier among individuals, colonies,
and species. Myrmecological News 30, 1-26 (2020).
5. G. Alciatore et al., Immune challenges increase net-
work centrality in a queenless ant. Proceedings of the
Royal Society B-Biological Sciences 288, (2021).
6. Y. Ulrich, J. Saragosti, C. K. Tokita, C. E. Tarnita,
D. J. C. Kronauer, Fitness benets and emergent divi-
sion of labour at the onset of group living. Nature 560,
635-638 (2018).
yuko ulrich <yulrich@ice.mpg.de >
MichiganTechU PlantEvolution
*Ph.D. opportunity in Plant Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology at Michigan Technological Universi-
tyevoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
A Ph.D. student opportunity is available in Dr. Erika
Hersch-Green's Plant Evolution and Ecology lab in the
Department of Biological Sciences at.D. opportunity in
Plant Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Michigan
Michigan Tech in Houghton, MI; starting date is exible
either August 2022 or January 2023. Broadly speaking
our group focuses on the mechanisms and processes that
inuence how plants interact with their abiotic and bi-
otic environments to eect ecological and evolutionary
dynamics. Particular research foci include - climate
change biology, genome size, hybridization, invasive
species biology, species interactions, and polyploidy.
We are looking for a student to work as part of a team of
students, scientists, teachers, and video media specialists
on research that seeks to understand whether and how
nutrient availabilities and/or disturbances aect plants
dierently based upon their genome sizes and whether
this contributes to the structuring of biodiversity pat-
terns from the molecular and functional attributes of
organisms to multispecies assemblages. In the sum-
mer of 2021, we established a long-term experimental
eld site that is integrated into the globally distributed
NutNet/DRAGNet experimental research consortium
(https://nutnet.org/) - where grassland plots vary in
nutrient and disturbance treatments. The successful
candidate will be expected to incorporate this local site
(and potentially other sites in the network) into theirApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 31
research and to test hypothesis related to how plant
genome size inuences community assembly processes,
plant species interactions (with other plants, pollinators,
herbivores, fungi, microbes), and/or invasive species
dynamics following disturbances and/or nutrient enrich-
ments.
Eight semesters of funding (including tuition) are avail-
able for support. Candidates must have prior work
experience in eld *or* molecular/chemistry lab set-
tings, work well independently as well as part of a team,
and have a Master's degree in a related discipline to
ecology and evolutionary biology; only substantial re-
search experience will be considered in lieu of a Master's
degree. All members of our group are committed to
promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion and the suc-
cessful candidate will also commit to this approach. De-
sired qualications include an excellent academic record,
a good quantitative background (including statistics),
and strong writing skills. Aside from a research focus,
students will be trained in scientic teaching and com-
munication skills and will have the opportunity to work
with G6-12 and undergraduate students. Therefore,
we are also looking for a student who is interested in
community outreach.
Qualied and interested candidates should email Dr.
Erika Hersch-Green ( eherschg@mtu.edu) and include a
statement of interest describing what area(s) of research
they are interested in and why, an updated CV, unof-
cial transcripts, contact information for 3 references
and preferred start date (August 2022 or January 2023).
Suitable candidates will *then* be encouraged to submit
a formal application to the graduate school at Michigan
Technological University. Review of applicants will start
May 1st until a candidate is found.
Michigan Tech is located in Houghton, MI on the
south shore of Lake Superior. This area is known
for its natural beauty, pleasant summers, abundant
snowfall, and numerous all-season outdoor activities.
The University maintains its downhill and cross-country
ski facilities adjacent to campus and a nearby golf
course. Numerous cultural activities and opportunities
are available on campus and in the community. Links
for more information about the university and its
surrounding area: Michigan Tech Home Page (http://-
www.mtu.edu), Dept. of Biological Sciences ( http://-
www.mtu.edu/biological/), Graduate School ( http://-
www.mtu.edu/gradschool), Research Centers ( https:/-
/www.mtu.edu/research/about/centers-institutes/),
Recreation/Things to do (http://www.mtu.edu/-
recreation, https://www.keweenaw.info/attractions/,
http://visithoughton.com/attractions-entertainment/-
).{ Erika Hersch-Green, Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences 740 DOW Building Michigan Tech-
nological University 1400 Townsend Drive Houghton,
MI 49931 Oce: 906-487-3351 Fax: 906-487-3167 Email:
eherschg@mtu.edu
.D. opportunity in Plant Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology at Michigan
Erika Hersch-Green <eherschg@mtu.edu >
MontpellierU MarineEvolution
We are seeking a highly motivated student holding a
Master's degree for a PhD position in evolutionary
ecology on the link between genetic and functional
diversity in marine teleost sh and its implications
for their response and resilience to global change (see
the dedicated webpage for details: https://ifremer-
en.jobs.net/en-GB/job/phd-deciphering-the-link-
between-genetic-and-functional-diversity-in-marine-
tele/J3W32569N4S5V3KYH41).
The research will rely on developing an individual-
based eco-evolutionary model of sh communities for
the Mediterranean Sea taken as a case study and be con-
ducted at UMR MARBEC (https://umr-marbec.fr/en)
in Montpellier (France) starting in Fall 2022.
The student will be supervised by Dr. Bruno Er-
nande (IFREMER, bruno.ernande@ifremer.fr) and Dr.
Yunne-Jai Shin (IRD, yunne-jai.shin@ird.fr) and will
be registered in the GAIA Doctoral School (https://-
gaia.umontpellier.fr/) of Montpellier University.
The student will also collaborate with researchers from
the UMR ISEM (https://isem-evolution.fr/) in the con-
text of a local collaborative project and with researchers
from French and other European research units in the
context of a national (FORESEA 2050, 2021-2024, 7
partners) and a European project (BIOcean5D, 2022-
2026, 29 partners).
The work involves mostly computer work and program-
ming with opportunities for eld work during scientic
cruises at sea.
Strong programming skills and good knowledge of pro-
gramming languages such as R, C/C++, Fortran or
Java are required.
Interested applicants should send their appli-
cations by April 25, 2022 to the supervisors
(bruno.ernande@ifremer.fr and yunne-jai.shin@ird.fr)32 EvolDir April 1, 2022
and upload it on the dedicated webpage (https:/-
/ifremer-en.jobs.net/en-GB/job/phd-deciphering-
the-link-between-genetic-and-functional-diversity-in-
marine-tele/J3W32569N4S5V3KYH41).
Interviews will take place on June 1st, 2022 from 9 to
12 am CET.
Bruno ERNANDE (Ifremer) UMR MARBEC Universit e
de Montpellier, 2 Place E. Bataillon - CC 093, 34095
Montpellier Cedex 5, France +33 (0)467143672 / +33
(0)614102621 http://www.umr-marbec.fr/fr/ http:/-
/annuaire.ifremer.fr/cv/16861/ http://sombee.org/
Bruno.Ernande@ifremer.fr
MPIO Seewiesen
EvolutionCognition
Opportunity!
Projects available for Master's/Bachelor's students and
self-funded Interns in Comparative Cognition Research
Station at Tenerife, Spain run collaboratively between
the Max-Planck Institute for Ornithology and the Loro
Parque Foundation
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition Research
Group (CCRG)
https://www.bi.mpg.de/von-bayern/de invites applica-
tions from Postgraduate/Undergraduate students and
Interns who want to assist in research projects and bird
care, enrichment and management. The CCRG is part
of the collaboration between the Max-Planck Institute
for Ornithology, Germany, and Loro Parque Fundacion
(LPF) in Tenerife, Spain. We are currently carrying out
several projects on parrot intelligence. We work with
mostly tame, captive parrots of LPF, which owns the
largest collection of parrots and genetic reserve in the
world (approximately 350 subspecies) for conservation
and research purposes. Interested candidates are encour-
aged to contact us to request information about ongoing
projects. Selected applicants will gain experience in the
eld of cognitive research, as well as working with and
training exotic parrots in a highly dynamic international
research environment. A unique opportunity!
Preferable time of joining: It is highly preferable if
students can join by April-May 2022
Logistics: The projects for Master's/Bachelor's theses
and internships require a minimum of 4 months but
ideally 6 months of continuous commitment at the re-search station in Tenerife, Spain. Accommodation can
be provided in a shared student apartment (Puerto de
la Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Selected candidates need to have:
- High motivation and commitment to the care of our
birds
- Preferably pursuing Bachelor's or Master's degree in Bi-
ology/ Psychology/Animal Science or related subjects.
- Reliability, eciency and ability to work independently
- Condence to interact with animals
- Good verbal English skills
- Good teamwork attitude and social skills
Submit your request!
For more information on how to apply, please email
Dr. Anastasia Krasheninnikova (akrashe@orn.mpg.de),
the Msc Esha Haldar (ehaldar@orn.mpg.de) or the Msc.
Sara Torres (storres@orn.mpg.de).
\Krasheninnikova, Anastasia" <akrashe@orn.mpg.de >
PennsylvaniaStateU
PlantConservationGenomics
Plant Conservation and Restoration Genomics at Penn-
sylvania State University
A PhD and MS position are available in conservation and
restoration genomics to study genotype-environment in-
teractions for climate adaptation and restoration in
forest trees (PhD) and genetic connectivity for grass-
land species commonly used in restoration (MSc) with
Jill Hamilton at Pennsylvania State University.
PhD Position: The PhD student will be prepared to com-
bine eld-based research monitoring phenotypic trait
variation across replicated common garden experiments
with genomic analyses (RAD-seq and whole-genome se-
quencing), with environmental and spatial data. The
ideal graduate student will have some experience in
computational biology; including population genomics
and/or quantitative genetics. There is plenty of room to
pursue particular interests in evolutionary and ecologi-
cal genomics, genetic mechanisms underlying response
to environmental cues, adaptive introgression or the
origin of species barriers depending on the interest and
experience of the candidate.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 33
MS Position: Identifying the appropriate seed sources
for restoration eorts can be challenging, particularly
for geographically isolated populations in the face of
changing climates where historical isolation or contem-
porary fragmentation may have contributed to genetic
dierences important to adaptation across a species'
range. This project will use genomic data to assess
connectivity across fragmented grassland communities
for three native forbs commonly used in restoration and
will quantify genotype-environment associations for ap-
plication to seed movement in the context of restoration.
The MS student will have some experience in botany,
molecular ecology/population genetics, and/or bioin-
formatics for genomic data analyses, and be prepared
to conduct some eld-based research in a collaborative
environment.
For more information on the Hamilton Lab and the
Schatz Center for Tree Molecular Genetics visit the lab
website at http://www.jillahamilton.com and https:/-
/ecosystems.psu.edu/research/centers/schatz. In addi-
tion, for more information on the Department of Ecosys-
tem Science and Management at Penn State visit https:/-
/ecosystems.psu.edu/. State College is a vibrant uni-
versity town located in central Pennsylvania close to
several major centers with fantastic opportunities for
outdoor recreation year-round. Interested students are
encouraged to contact Dr. Hamilton (jvh6349@psu.edu).
Please include a brief description of your research inter-
ests, a writing sample, and a CV in your email. The
positions are fully-funded and includes an annual salary,
a tuition waiver and are open to US or international
students.
Jill Hamilton Director, Schatz Center in Tree Molecular
Genetics Ibberson Chair of Silviculture Research De-
partment of Ecosystem Science and Management Penn-
sylvania State University University Park, PA, USA
16802 (she/her/hers)
\Hamilton, Jill" <jvh6349@psu.edu >
SGN Frankfurt 2 MutationEvolution
Job announcement ref #11-22001
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based in
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. SGN conducts natural
history research with almost 800 employees and research
institutions in six federal states. Within SGN, the Senck-
enberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (SBiKF) explores the interactions between biodiversity, cli-
mate, and society.
For the DFG funded project \Temperaturabh angigkeit
der Punktmutationsrate: unterliegende Faktoren und
Prozesse", Senckenberg BiK-F invites applications for a
PhD Position (part time, 65%)
The project deals with the questions how mutations are
the fuel of evolution. According to a recent publication,
the mutation rate depends on environmental factors, e.g.
the temperature. In the framework of a DFG-project,
we want to tackle the following important questions:  
What are the processes behind the observed thermal
optimum curve of the mutation rate? - What processes
drive the variation in mutation rate? - Why does the
mutation rate increase toward both extreme tempera-
tures? - What determines the position of the optimum
of the mutation rate on the temperature scale? - Is it a
species-specic constant or does it evolve in response to
local temperature condition?
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student (m/f/d)
for 36 months to carry out the experiments and publish
the results.
Your tasks: - Carry out experimental work with the non-
biting midge Chironomus riparius in a highly modern
experimental facility - Molecular experimental assess-
ment of oxidative stress - Bioinformatical determination
of mutation rates from whole genome resequencing data
with existing Pipelines
Your prole: - Master degree in a relevant area (Popula-
tion Genomics, Genetics, Molecular Ecology, Molecular
Biology, Biodiversity Genomics, et al.) - Familiarity
with bioinformatic (big) data analysis - Good written
and oral communication skills (English and/or German)
- Required skills (either proven or convincingly demon-
strated willingness to acquire rapidly): - analysis of huge
amounts of NGS data - experimental work with living
animals - molecular laboratory skills - Interest to col-
laboratively work in an interdisciplinary, international
Team
What is awaiting you? Salary and benets are according
to a part-time public service position in Germany (TV-
H E 13, 65%). The position is a 36-months xed-term
post, starting as soon as possible.
The Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre supports equal opportunity of men and women
and therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equally
qualied handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence.
The place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft34 EvolDir April 1, 2022
f ur Naturforschung.
You would like to apply? Please include the reference
to this position (ref. #11-22001) in the subject line and
include a cover letter describing your motivation to ap-
ply, a detailed CV, relevant credentials and certicates,
if available: list of publications, and contact details of 2
potential referees. Please submit your application via
e-mail as a single PDF le or via our online application
tool on our website to:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung Sencken-
berganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main E-Mail: re-
cruiting@senckenberg.de For scientic enquiries please
contact Prof. Dr. Markus Pfenninger. Email:
markus.pfenninger@senckenberg.de.
|{
Job Announcement ref.#12-22005
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based
in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The LOEWE Cen-
tre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-
TBG), https://tbg.senckenberg.de, is a joint venture of
the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN),
Goethe-University Frankfurt, Justus-Liebig-University
Giessen and Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology
and Applied Ecology IME aiming to intensify biodiver-
sity genomics in basic and applied research. We establish
a new and taxonomically broad genome collection to
study genomic and functional diversity across the tree
of life and make genomic resources accessible for societal
demand driven applied research.
For the LOEWE funded Centre for Translational Biodi-
versity Genomics Centre (LOEWE-TBG), Project area
Functional Environmental Genomics, Senckenberg in-
vites applications for a
PhD Candidate (m/f/d) Evolutionary Ecotoxicology
(part-time, 26 hours/week)
In this project, we want to prove the utility of a recently
developed metazoan mutation rate test for application
on potentially mutagenic substances in ecotoxicology.
The goal is to standardise the test for routine application
in national and international regulatory frameworks. In
addition, the position oers the possibility to explore
the evolutionary consequences of stressor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlSGN Frankfurt
EvolutionaryEcotoxicology
Job Announcement ref.#12-22005
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Naturforschung
(SGN) is a member of the Leibniz Association and
is based in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics
(LOEWE- TBG), https://tbg.senckenberg.de, is a joint
venture of the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Natur-
forschung (SGN), Goethe-University Frankfurt, Justus-
Liebig-University Giessen and Fraunhofer Institute for
Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME aiming
to intensify biodiversity genomics in basic and applied
research. We establish a new and taxonomically broad
genome collection to study genomic and functional diver-
sity across the tree of life and make genomic resources
accessible for societal demand driven applied research.
For the LOEWE funded Centre for Translational Biodi-
versity Genomics Centre (LOEWE-TBG), Project area
Functional Environmental Genomics, Senckenberg in-
vites applications for a
PhD Candidate (m/f/d) Evolutionary Ecotoxicology
(part-time, 26 hours/week)
In this project, we want to prove the utility of a recently
developed metazoan mutation rate test for application
on potentially mutagenic substances in ecotoxicology.
The goal is to standardise the test for routine application
in national and international regulatory frameworks. In
addition, the position oers the possibility to explore
the evolutionary consequences of stressor exposition
over multiple generations. The project is part of the
LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics
(LOEWE-TBG, https://tbg.senckenberg.de/) and it is
supported by excellent laboratory and bioinformatics
facilities of the Centre.
The MolecularEcology group (https://-
www.senckenberg.de/en/institutes/sbik-f/molecular-
ecology/) is working on the genomic basis of adaptation
to environmental change in populations. We investigate
phenotypic and genomic variation in and between
ecological key species in order to reveal functional
similarities and dierences of environmental tolerance
across taxa and ecosystems. We combine state-of-art
tools in genome sequencing, assembly and annotationApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 35
with evolutionary theory, and laboratory and natural
experiments to address current societal challenges
like climate change. We actively develop conceptual
frameworks and new bioinformatic tools to support our
research.
Your tasks
Carry out experimental work with the non-biting midge
Chironomus riparius in a highly modern experimental fa-
cilityPerforming the ensuing bioinformatic analyses from
whole genome resequencing data with existing pipeline-
sPlanning and organising international ring-tests
Your prole
Master degree in a relevant area (Ecotoxicology, Popula-
tion Genomics, Genetics, Molecular Ecology, Molecular
Biology etc.Familiarity with bioinformatic (big) data
analysisGood written and oral communication skills (En-
glish and/or German)Interest to collaboratively work in
an interdisciplinary, international teamRequired skills
(either proven or convincingly demonstrated willingness
to acquire rapidly):
Analysis of huge amounts of NGS dataExperimental
work with living animals
There will be a partner PhD project working on environ-
mental inuences on the mutation rate with the same
organism (Chironomus riparius, a non-biting midge),
allowing to share experimental and bioinformatical ex-
perience and experimental tasks.
What is awaiting you?
An interesting task in a dynamic team of researchers
in an international research group and joining the new
LOEWE TBG excellence centre with its 20 new research
groupsA relevant and timely research topic for a PhD
project at the interface of molecular technology devel-
opment, ecology, and human healthFlexible working
hours - dual career service - leave of absence due to
family reasons (certied by \auditberufundfamilie") -
parent-child- oce - annual special payment - company
pension scheme - Senckenberg badge for free entry in
museums in Frankfurt - leave of 30 days/year
Place of employment: Frankfurt am Main
Working hours: Part time (65% position, 26 hours/week)
Type of contract: 3 years, starting as soon as possible
Salary: according to the German collective agreement
TV-H (pay grade E 13)
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Naturforschung sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference. Theemployer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fu Ir Natur-
forschung.
How to apply
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref. #12-22005) until 10 March 2022
(deadline), by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf doc-
ument) including a brief cover letter detailing your re-
search interests and experience (1 page), a CV and
copies of your certicates, transcripts and grades to:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SGN Frankfurt MarineBiodiversity
eDNA
Job announcement ref. #02-22001
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
was founded in 1817 and is one of the most important
research institutions in the eld of biodiversity. At its
eleven locations throughout Germany, scientists from
over 40 nations conduct cutting-edge research on an
international scale. Senckenberg am Meer in the port
city of Wilhelmshaven is the northernmost institute
of the society. It cooperates with important research
institutions in German marine research as well as col-
leges and universities. Located directly on the North
Sea, the Wilhelmshaven site also oers local recreation
in unspoilt nature as well as a wide range of cultural
activities.
The Institute Senckenberg am Meer, Wilhelmshaven,
invites applications for a PhD position in the ERA RE-
STORESEAS Project for a
PhD position (m/f/d)
Present and past biodiversity characterization of selected
marine biomes using eDNA
The project is embedded within an international ERA-
JPI-Water project focusing on marine forests of ani-
mals, plants and algae: nature-based tools to protect
and restore biodiversity. E-DNA (including sedaDNA)
samples, collected with focus on marine biomes o Mau-
ritania (seagrass meadows, deep-water coral mounds),
will be analyzed on present and past biodiversity shifts.36 EvolDir April 1, 2022
The Mauritanian Upwelling zone - known for its high
biological productivity - is characterized by oxygen-
depleted and nutrient-rich water masses, environmental
factors predestined for successful sedimentary e-DNA
analyses. E-DNA metabarcoding studies prot from
and contribute to the ongoing eorts of establishing a
comprehensive DNA-library of Mauritanian marine life
- a valuable tool for (future) conservation eorts.
Your prole:
MSc. in bio- or geosciencesExpertise in taxonomy and
genetic methodsInterest in eld-based ecology and an-
ity to advanced computational toolsTeam work capabil-
ities in a multidisciplinary teamFluency in English and
German (written and spoken), French or Arabic is also
highly welcomedWillingness to participate on oshore
cruises and eld trips to Mauritania is essential
Salary and benets are according to a part time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E13, 65 %). The
position is a 3-year xed-term post, starting as soon as
possible, ideally on April 1st, 2022.
The place of employment is at the site Senckenberg am
Meer in Wilhelmshaven.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
place of employment will be Wilhelmshaven, Germany.
The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Natur-
forschung.
How to apply:
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job announcement (ref. #02-22001) before March
13, 2022 by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document)
and include a letter outlining your suitability for the
post, a detailed CV, your complete academic grades,
transcripts, credentials and characters and contact de-
tails of 2 references:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
For scientic enquiries please get in contact with
Prof. Dr. Andr e Freiwald via e-mail an-
dre.freiwald@senckenberg.de
Thank you for your consideration!
Yours sincerely
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.\recruiting@senckenberg.de"
<recruiting@senckenberg.de >
SGN Frankfurt
MutationRateEvolution
Job announcement ref. #11-22008
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based in
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. SGN conducts natural
history research with more than 800 employees and re-
search institutions in six federal states. Within SGN, the
Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(SBiK-F) explores the interactions between biodiversity,
climate, and society.
For the DFG funded project \Temperature dependence
of the point mutation rate: underlying factors and pro-
cesses", Senckenberg BiK-F invites applications for a
PhD Position(part time, 65%)
The project deals with the questions how mutations are
the fuel of evolution. According to a recent publication,
the mutation rate depends on environmental factors, e.g.
the temperature. In the framework of a DFG-project,
we want to tackle the following important questions:
What are the processes behind the observed thermal op-
timum curve of the mutation rate?What processes drive
the variation in mutation rate?Why does the mutation
rate increase toward both extreme temperatures?What
determines the position of the optimum of the mutation
rate on the temperature scale?Is it a species-specic con-
stant or does it evolve in response to local temperature
condition?
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student (m/f/d)
for 36 months to carry out the experiments and publish
the results.
Your tasks
Carry out experimental work with the non-biting midge
Chironomus riparius in a highly modern experimental
facilityMolecular experimental assessment of oxidative
stressBioinformatical determination of mutation rates
from whole genome resequencing data with existing
pipelines
Your prole
Master degree in a relevant area (Population Genomics,
Genetics, Molecular Ecology, Molecular Biology, Biodi-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 37
versity Genomics, et al.)Familiarity with bioinformatic
(big) data analysisGood written and oral communication
skills (English and/or German)Required skills (either
proven or convincingly demonstrated willingness to ac-
quire rapidly):
analysis of huge amounts of NGS dataexperimental work
with living animalsmolecular laboratory skillsInterest
to collaboratively work in an interdisciplinary, interna-
tional team
What is awaiting you?
Salary and benets are according to a part-time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E 13, 65%). The
position is a 36-months xed-term post, starting as soon
as possible.
The Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre supports equal opportunity of men and women
and therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equally
qualied handicapped applicants will be given preference.
The place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
f ur Naturforschung.
You would like to apply?
Please include the reference to this position (ref. #11-
22008) in the subject line and include a
cover letter describing your motivation to apply,a de-
tailed CV, relevant credentials and certicates, optional:
list of publications, contact details of two potential ref-
erees. We welcome applications until the position is
lled.
Please submit your application via e-mail as a single
PDF le or via our online application tool on our website
to:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
For scientic enquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Markus
Pfenninger.
Email: markus.pfenninger@senckenberg.de.
Yours sincerely,
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a  c 22 BGB)
Senckenberganlage 2560325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
- 1564 di-Biase, Maria
- 1204 Reitinger, Jasmin
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1445
Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Klement Tockner, Prof. Dr.
Angelika Brandt, Dr. Martin Mittelbach, Prof. Dr.
Andreas Mulch, Prof. Dr. Karsten Wesche;
Pr asidentin: Dr. h.c. Beate Heraeus;
Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt am
Main (Ordnungsamt)
Mitglied der Leibniz-Gemeinschaft
Vernetzen Sie sich mit uns: www.senckenberg.de/-
socialmedia Isabel Gajcevic
<recruiting@senckenberg.de >
StockholmU Palaeogenomics
PhD STUDENT POSITION
- Analysis of ancient DNA from wild animals on a million-
year timescale.
- Based at the Centre for Palaeogenetics and Department
of Zoology (Stockholm University).
- Subject area: Population genetics.
- Application deadline: 22 April 2022.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Department of Zoology invites applications for a
four-year PhD position based at the Centre for Palaeoge-
netics in Stockholm. The project is aimed at analyzing
ancient DNA on a million-year timescale. The analyses
will use state-of-the-art genomic methods, and will fo-38 EvolDir April 1, 2022
cus on remains from several dierent vertebrate species
dated to the Middle and Early Pleistocene (0.1 - 2.6
million years ago). The PhD project is part of a 10-year
research programme funded by the Swedish Research
Council, aiming to trace the evolution of several mam-
malian species throughout their entire existence. The
goals of this research programme are to investigate the
processes of speciation, adaptation and hybridization
and how these relate to past environmental change. The
PhD student will join the research group led by Love
Dal en (see www.palaeogenetics.com/ld) at the Centre
for Palaeogenetics located on the Stockholm University
campus.
SELECTION CRITERIA
The selection among the eligible candidates will be based
on their capacity to benet from the training. The fol-
lowing criteria will be used to assess this capacity: the
candidates' documented knowledge in a relevant eld of
research, written and oral prociency in English, the ca-
pacity for analytical thinking, the ability to collaborate,
as well as creativity, initiative, and independence. The
assessment will be based on previous experience and
grades, the quality of the degree project, references, rele-
vant experience, interviews, and the candidate's written
motivation for seeking the position. In addition, expe-
rience in population genetics, bioinformatics and labo-
rative DNA analysis are important qualications. For
complete information on the qualication requirements,
please see the full advertisement (link below).
RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT
The PhD student will be based at the Centre for Palaeo-
genetics (CPG) in Stockholm, which is a newly estab-
lished research centre with state-of-the-art laboratory
facilities and modern oces and meeting areas. CPG is
jointly funded by Stockholm University and the Swedish
Museum of Natural History. The centre is a multidis-
ciplinary research environment with sta from depart-
ments in biology, archaeology, and geology, who are all
dedicated to analyses of ancient and modern DNA to
investigate prehistory. CPG currently houses a sta of
22 persons, including 6 PhD students and 8 postdocs.
It is an international workplace, with the current sta
coming from 12 dierent countries. Located on the
Stockholm University campus, CPG is part of a vibrant
genomics community in Stockholm, by many considered
one of the most beautiful cities in the world.
HOW TO APPLY
Apply for the PhD student position using Stockholm
University's recruitment system. It is the responsibil-
ity of the applicant to ensure that the application is
complete in accordance with the instructions in theadvertisement, and that it is submitted before the dead-
line.
LINK TO RECRUITMENT SYSTEM
https://www.su.se/english/about-the-university/-
work-at-su/available-jobs/phd-student-positions-
1.507588?rmpage=job&rmjob=17418&rmlang=UK
Stockholm University contributes to the development
of sustainable democratic society through knowledge,
enlightenment and the pursuit of truth.
Love Dal en <Love.Dalen@nrm.se >
Tours France
InsectsEvolutionPesticides
1 PhD position: Endocrine disruptors and maternal care
in insects
We invite applications for a 3-years PhD position at
the Insect Biology Research Institute (IRBI) located at
the University of Tours, France. The project aims to
better understand the hormonal regulation of parental
care in insects and to analyse the consequences of expo-
sure to endocrine disruptors (particularly pesticides) on
the evolution of care. We will focus on the European
earwig, a species in which mothers care for both eggs
and juveniles, and which is often used as pest control
in agriculture. The PhD student will identify the hor-
mones involved in the regulation of maternal care in this
species, and test whether and how certain insecticides
or other endocrine-disrupting molecules could aect the
evolution of family life in insects. The project includes
standard laboratory setups, behavioural experiments,
pesticide and hormone manipulation, life-history traits
measurements and proteomic analyses. Depending on
the student's interests, it may also include transcrip-
tomic analyses, physiological measurements, immune
assays, and gut microbial analyses.
The thesis is co-nanced by the Centre-Val de Loire
region and the national Ecophyto 2+ programme.
The city of Tours is a beautiful historic place located
near Paris and the Loire Valley and hosts many students
and a rich social and cultural life (http://www.tours-
tourism.co.uk/). The University of Tours includes many
excellent scientic institutions, among which the In-
stitut de Recherche sur la Biologie de l'Insecte. This
institute oers an excellent, international, dynamic and
interactive scientic environment with state-of-the-art,
newly equipped laboratories. The person recruited willApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 39
work under the co-direction of Dr Jo el Meunier and Dr
Charlotte L ecureuil. More information about the scien-
tic work of our group on earwigs can be found here:
http://joelmeunier.wixsite.com/researchpage . The po-
sition requires a master's degree in biology (or a related
eld) completed by August 2022 at the latest. The
successful candidate should have a strong background
in insects physiology, evolutionary biology and/or be-
havioural ecology. He/she should also show an interest
in the development of new molecular tools, be motivated,
energetic, independent and a good team player. People
of all nationalities are encouraged to apply.
Interested candidates should send applications to Jo el
Meunier (joel.meunier@univ-tours.fr) and Charlotte
L ecureuil (charlotte.lecureuil@univ-tours.fr). The ap-
plication should be sent as a single pdf containing a
motivation letter (max. 1.5 pages), a curriculum vitae
(with grades of Master classes), a summary of the Mas-
ter thesis (max. 500 words) and the email address of
2-3 potential referees.
The deadline for applications is 27 April 2022 (included).
The starting date for the position is September 2022.
Joel Meunier, PhD, HDR
CNRS Researcher
Institut de Recherche sur la Biologie de l'Insecte (IRBI)
- UMR 7261 Universit e de Tours UFR des Sciences
et Techniques Avenue Monge, Parc Grandmont 37200
Tours, FRANCE
Oce: +33 (0)2 47 36 73 93 https://irbi.univ-tours.fr/-
recherche/ Jo el Meunier <joel.meunier@univ-tours.fr >
UBern Biodiversity
1 PhD position within our new research project entitled:
Small structures to promote biodiversity in agricultural
landscapes Farmland biodiversity is still declining in
Switzerland and around the world despite all eorts
and increasing money invested in its protection. In this
context, small structures, such as piles of branches or
stones, are more and more popular and recommended as
greening measures. It is quite intuitive that a multitude
of organisms benet from these structures, however,
there is very little scientic evidence behind (reviewed
in Rossier et al. 2021, in German). The goal of the
project is to determine quantitatively which species are
favoured by the presence of piles of branches or stonesand to better understand the role of these small struc-
tures on the functionality of our agroecosystems (e.g. as
a stepping stone for animal dispersal). Ultimately, the
project will deliver evidence-based recommendations on
when, where and how to place these structures in the
landscape to conserve and restore biodiversity. While
stoat (Mustela erminea) and common weasel (Mustela
nivalis) are the focal species, other indicators among
reptiles and invertebrates shall be selected. Stoats and
weasels will be monitored using non-invasive genetic
sampling with the help of scat-detection dogs.
The candidate holds a MSc degree, shows a strong in-
terest in biodiversity conservation and masters modern
analytical techniques. Knowledge of genetic tools would
be advantageous, though not prerequisite. English liter-
acy is important, while written prociency in German
or French with oral competences in the other language
is necessary, notably for dealing with local stakeholders
and nancing partners.
Please email a letter of motivation with CV, summary of
MSc thesis, as well as name, phone number and email ad-
dress of two referees to jean-yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch.
More information about our research group ' which
is part of the Division of Conservation Biology at the
University of Bern headed by Prof. Rapha ~Al Arlet-
taz ' can be found here: https://www.cb.iee.unibe.ch/-
about us/pd drhumbert jean yves/index eng.html Ap-
plication deadline: 24 April 2022; interviews in Bern
on 5 May 2022. Envisioned starting date: July-August
2022; duration: 3 years; salary according to SNSF rules.
PD Dr Jean-Yves Humbert University of Bern Institute
of Ecology and Evolution Oce: Erlachstrasse 9a
Trakt 2 Mail: Baltzerstrasse 6, CH-3012 Bern Tel.
+41 31 631 31 73 jean-yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch
http://www.cb.iee.unibe.ch/about us/-
pddrhumbert jean yves/index eng.html
\jean-yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch" <jean-
yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch > \jean-
yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch" <jean-
yves.humbert@iee.unibe.ch >40 EvolDir April 1, 2022
UCalgary
AdaptationTheoryGenomics
Yeaman Lab Department of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Calgary
I am seeking to recruit a PhD student interested in
studying how evolution works. My lab has mainly pur-
sued questions related to adaptation using theory &
simulation approaches to generate predictions and ge-
nomic data to test them. We have worked on a range
of organisms, from parasitic nematodes to stickleback
to conifers, and have ongoing projects in many of these
areas. I'm also very open to helping you develop a new
study area of your own design. Additionally, I am very
interested in working on similar questions in cultural
evolution, and would be particularly enthusiastic about
collaborating with a student on work in this area, as a
complement to work on genetic evolution. The genetics
of local adaptation to climate in conifers remains a main
area of research in my lab, so eld work in the Cana-
dian Rockies is always an option. On the other hand,
if you're more of a dry-lab person - and this applies to
most of my lab members, there is a wealth of existing
data and plenty of opportunities to generate and analyse
new data.
For international students: I would love to hear from
you! It is sometimes hard for me to evaluate the mean-
ing of grading systems in dierent countries, so if you
can provide some context there, that would be really
helpful for me (e.g. explain what percentage of students
achieve similar marks, point out particularly notewor-
thy achievements). Similarly, if some kind of adversity
has meant you might not look as competitive based on
your CV, please let me know. I'm most interested in
recruiting someone with great ideas and curiousity - and
this isn't necessarily well-represented by the traditional
CV.
TO APPLY: Please send a CV and a short description of
your academic interests to samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca,
along with the names and emails of three people I could
contact as references. For students that have published:
please let me know what you contributed to each paper.
Please also send a sample of your writing - something
that represents your best work (not necessarily pub-
lished). I will begin reviewing applications on March
21st 2022, but please contact me to check in if you need
to make a quicker decision.Samuel Yeaman <samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca >
UFribourg 2 ComputationalBiology
**PhD position in Computational Conservation Biol-
ogy**
Statistical and Computational Biology Group, Prof.
Wegmann, University of Fribourg, Switzerland
**Who we are**
We are a young, international, interdisciplinary and en-
thusiastic research group at the University of Fribourg,
Switzerland, aiming at understanding the evolutionary
and ecological processes shaping the realm of biological
diversity we see today. To achieve this, we design and
develop new statistical and computational approaches,
and apply them to big data from many biological elds.
A current focus of the lab is the characterization and
quantication of biodiversity, and to monitor its trends
to inform conservation management.
**Your tasks**
We seek a highly motivated PhD student to support
our conservation eorts, particularly regarding African
mammals. The successful candidate will work closely
with our partners at the Chinko Nature Reserve in Cen-
tral Africa (https://www.africanparks.org/the-parks/-
chinko) to monitor trends in population abundances.
The work involves
- Curating ecological big data such as camera trap images
and records from transects.
- Automating these curation tasks (where possible) using
Machine Learning.
- Developing computational methods to identify trends
in ecological data.
- Applying these methods to inform conservation man-
agement.
The position is fully funded with a competitive salary
for four years, with the possibility to extend by one
additional year. The successful candidate should ideally
start in Summer 2022. The research does not involve
eld work, but a visit to the Chinko Nature Reserve can
be arranged.
**What we oer**
We oer a stimulating research environment, well em-
bedded in the strong bioinformatic and conservationApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 41
communities of western Switzerland. We are part of the
Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB) and boost excel-
lent research facilities, including state-of-the-art high-
performance computational infrastructures. Fribourg
is a lively university town with pleasant surroundings
(such as the Alps) and an excellent quality of life. It is
located only 20 minutes from the capital of Switzerland,
Bern, and just a little over an hour from Geneva and
Z >1
2rich. While some knowledge of German or French
is benecial for living in Switzerland, it is not essential.
The working language in our lab and institute is English.
**What you bring**
Either A)a master degree in bioinformatics, computa-
tional biology, computer science, statistics or a related
eld, and a strong interest in applying these skills to sup-
port the conservation of nature, or B) a master degree in
ecology, conservation, evolutionary biology or a related
eld and a strong interest in computational methods.
While experience in programming is not required, we ex-
pect candidates to be highly motivated to acquire skills
in programming (R and C++) and statistical inference,
for which we provide state-of-the-art training. Good
knowledge of written and spoken English is expected.
**How to apply**
To receive full consideration, apply before May 15 2022
at https://forms.gle/XwShdJJECqe1X7Sn8 with a sin-
gle PDF le including
- a brief summary of your previous research and motiva-
tion for the position,
- a Curriculum Vitae,
- copies of degree certicates and list of coursework,
including grades,
- names, addresses and emails of two professional refer-
ences.
**Further information on our lab:**
- http://www.wegmannlab.com
- https://www.sib.swiss/daniel-wegmann-group
**Recent papers on the topic**
- https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/-
ecog.05411 - https://www.sciencedirect.com/-
science/article/abs/pii/S0006320718315714 - https:/-
/www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/-
S0006320716307492 Prof. Dr. Daniel Wegmann
Department of Biology University of Fribourg Chemin
du Mus >1
2e 10 1700 Fribourg Switzerland
+41 (0)26 300 89 49 daniel.wegmann@unifr.ch
http://www.unifr.ch/biology/research/wegmann/ |{**PhD position in Ancient DNA Bioinformatics**
Statistical and Computational Biology Group, Prof.
Wegmann, University of Fribourg, Switzerland
**Who we are**
We are a young, international, interdisciplinary and en-
thusiastic research group at the University of Fribourg,
Switzerland, aiming at understanding the evolutionary
and ecological processes shaping the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHelsinki 7 ForestTreeGenomics
https://www2.helsinki./en/open-positions/doctoral-
researchers-the-centre-of-excellence-in-tree-biology The
Centre of Excellence in Tree Biology invites applications
for
7 DOCTORAL RESEARCHER POSITIONS in the
following research projects
- Project 1: Stomatal function and vascular connections.
The project aims at molecular-level understanding of
guard cell signalling and function in response to en-
vironmental stimuli. We will also address molecular
connections between stomatal regulation and vascu-
lar function (e.g., water transport, systemic signals).
We will utilize proteomics, biochemical and molecular
genetics approaches in Arabidopsis and physiological
measurements of stomatal and vascular parameters in
Arabidopsis and trees. Supervisors: Kangasj arvi, Sierla,
Shapiguzov, Waszczak
- Project 2: The role of energy metabolism in car-
bon source eects. The project aims at: (i) dissecting
metabolic and signalling interactions between chloro-
plasts and mitochondria and (ii) developing new meth-
ods for phenotyping photosynthesis and respiration (in-
cluding advanced chlorophyll uorometry, gas exchange
and oxygen microsensor approaches). Supervisors: Kan-
gasj arvi, Shapiguzov, Sierla
- Project 3: Morphogenesis and functionality of phloem.
Following our extensive previous work of phloem devel-
opment, we are taking various genetic and molecular
approaches to deepen our understanding of phloem at42 EvolDir April 1, 2022
cellular and functional levels. Supervisors: Helariutta,
M ah onen, H oltt a, Sierla
- Project 4: Cambial factors. Guided with a comparative
single cell transcriptome analysis of Arabidopsis, birch
and poplar cambia, the aim in this project is to identify
through molecular genetics key loci driving enhanced
growth and carbon sink in trees. Supervisors: M ah onen,
Kucukoglu-Topcu
- Project 5: Source-sink. By combining computational
modelling and experimentation, in this project, we will
explore how mutations aecting function of stomata,
conductive tissue or cambium and thus, consequently,
carbon sequestration in wood, will potentially feedback
to each other, and to other aspects in tree physiology.
Supervisors: H oltt a, M ah onen, Kucukoglu-Topcu
- Project 6: Distribution and role of open chromatin in
silver birch and Scots pine genomes. Open chromatin se-
quencing (ATAC-seq) allows identication of regulatory
active regions of the genome. In this project, the aim is
to study regulatory genomic regions in conjunction with
gene expression and population genetic data from both
functional genetics and/or evolutionary point of view
depending on the interests of the candidate. Supervisors:
Pyh aj arvi, Saloj arvi
- Project 7: Genomic breeding. By combining our un-
derstanding of physiology and genetics in both trees and
Arabidopsis with the phenotypic and genomic data of
the current silver birch breeding population in Finland,
our aim is to develop a model for genomic breeding in
this economically highly important boreal tree species.
Supervisors: Nieminen, Pyh aj arvi, Saloj arvi
The doctoral researchers will be employed full-time for a
xed term of 4 years in one of the CoE research groups.
The earliest starting date is 1 April 2022.
We seek highly motivated candidates with excellent com-
municational skills, who can work both independently
and in a team. Fluency in English is expected. The
candidate should have MSc degree in genetics, molecular
biology, evolutionary biology, biology or related elds
and to have proven academic ability to take initiative
and think independently as well as experience in work-
ing with plants. The background and interests of the
successful candidates will determine their specic lines
of research within the CoE.
For general information, contact the CoE Coordinator
Karolina Blajecka: karolina.blajecka@helsinki.
For science related questions, contact the CoE PIs:
Yk a Helariutta (yrjo.helariutta@helsinki.), Jaakko
Kangasj arvi (jaakko.kangasjarvi@helsinki.), Ari
Pekka M ah onen (aripekka.mahonen@helsinki.),Teemu H oltt a (teemu.holtta@helsinki.), Tanja
Pyh aj arvi (tanja.pyhajarvi@helsinki.), Jarkko
Saloj arvi (jarkko.salojarvi@helsinki.), Kaisa
Nieminen (kaisa.p.nieminen@luke.), Alexey
Shapiguzov (alexey.shapiguzov@helsinki.), Melis
Kucukoglu-Topcu (melis.kucukoglu@helsinki.), Maija
Sierla (maija.sierla@helsinki.), Cezary Waszczak
(cezary.waszczak@helsinki.)
The position is xed-term (4 years) with a six-month
probation period. Salary is based on levels 1^ a4 of the
demands level chart for teaching and research personnel
in the salary system of Finnish universities. In addition,
the appointee will be paid a salary component
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKonstanz LaplandBirdBehaviour
What makes groups successful?
The Griesser lab (Department of Biology & Centre for
the Advanced Study of Collective Behavior, University
of Konstanz) is looking for 1 PhD candidate to investi-
gate the consequences of the interplay between individ-
ual and group social phenotype in a wild bird species.
Individual tness is the currency of Darwinian evolution,
and largely depends on an individual's social phenotype
(e.g., cooperativeness, aggressivity, stress sensitivity).
However, in animals living in enduring social groups,
an individual's tness is also aected by the group's
social phenotype. Although the latter component is
rarely considered, it is potentially quite important: suc-
cessful groups should be better at coordinating their
behaviours, e.g., during foraging or predator encounters.
This PhD project will investigate these links in wild pop-
ulation of Siberian jays (Perisoreus infaustus) in Swedish
Lapland, monitored since 1989. Our study population is
located in both pristine and managed forests. This bird
species lives in stable, enduring groups composed of a
breeding pair and up to 4 non-breeders, and we follow
individuals in up to 90 groups throughout their life to
collect life-history data and standardized behavioural
data. Non-breeders dier largely in how well they are
integrated into the group. The PhD project will com-
bine eld experiments with existing long-term data toApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 43
investigate the interplay between individual and group
social phenotype, and its consequences. A short descrip-
tion of our past research can be found here: https://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaH6wjAYAiE You will
join the Griesser lab and the interdisciplinary team at
the Excellence Cluster for the Advanced Study of Col-
lective Behaviour at the University of Konstanz. The
position can begin April 2022 (latest 1st July 2022) and
will be fully funded for three years (65%, salary scale
13 TV-L).
Requirements: - ||| MSc in behavioural ecology,
ecology, evolutionary biology, or similar; - ||| Field
experience of behavioural observations and experimen-
tal work; - ||| Bird handling experience (including
mist netting); - ||| Highly motivated and sociable
personality; - ||| Project management skills; - |||
Ability to work both independently and in a team; -
||| Driver's license (manual transmission); - |||
Basic knowledge of X-country or downhill skiing is an
advantage.
Application will be reviewed as soon as received, position
remains open until lled.
Applications should be sent to michael.griesser@uni-
konstanz.de and include a motivation letter, a CV, a
research statement (less than 1 page with academic
background, research experience, interests, and goals),
and names of two referees.
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer that is committed to providing employment
opportunities to all qualied applicants without regard
to race, colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, national origin, or disability. It seeks to
increase the number of women in those areas where they
are underrepresented and therefore explicitly encourage
women to apply (see equal opportunity).
If you have questions, contact michael.griesser@uni-
konstanz.de
Michael Griesser <mgriesser@ab.mpg.de >ULausanne
EvolutionaryConservationBiol
The University of Lausanne (UNIL) is a leading inter-
national teaching and research institution, with over
5,000 employees and 17,000 students split between its
Dorigny campus, CHUV and Epalinges. As an employer,
UNIL encourages excellence, individual recognition and
responsibility.
The group of Prof. Claus Wedekind is proposing a grad-
uate assistant (assistant dipl ~A^Am e) position in Evo-
lutionary Conservation Biology at the Department of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne, Switzer-
land. The graduate assistant will join a dynamic team
working on the selective forces that act on freshwater
sh, i.e. the eects of human activities in interaction
with natural and sexual selection. For more information,
see https:// www.unil.ch/dee/wedekind-group.
Expected start date: 01.08.2022 or to be agreed Con-
tract length: The initial contract is for 1 year, renewable
twice for two years, up to a maximum of 5 years in total
Activity rate: 85% Workplace: Lausanne-Dorigny
The position is in the context of a larger project that
focuses on induced evolution in salmonid sh (whitesh,
brown trout, grayling, and lake char) and combines eld-
work, experimental work in the laboratory, molecular
genetics and bioinformatics, and population modelling.
We are collaborating with several cantons and with other
research groups at UNIL and elsewhere.
Graduate assistants (assistants-dipl ~A^Am es) in our de-
partment assist in teaching and supervise master stu-
dents (up to 25% of the activity) and in the organization
of the equipment and labs or other institutional tasks
(5% of the activity). At least 55% of the working time
is devoted to personal thesis research.
We are seeking candidates with a Master in Biology and
with a strong interest in one or several of the follow-
ing elds: sh biology, population genetics, population
management, life history, bioinformatics, evolutionary
ecology. The working language in the group and in the
department is English for all scientic matters. Knowl-
edge in French and/or German would be a plus.
We oer a nice working place in a multicultural, di-
verse and dynamic academic environment, opportunities
for professional training, a lot of activities, and other
benets to discover. The Department of Ecology and44 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Evolution in Lausanne University hosts research groups
working on a broad range of topics, producing a rich
intellectual and social life. The campus is located on the
shore of the Geneva Lake, with the view on the Alps.
Please use on the UNIL recruitment platform at https:/-
/bit.ly/3sAZeNb to upload your full application con-
taining a cover letter with a short description of your
research interests and research experience, your Cur-
riculum vitae, a copy of your master certicate, contact
details of two or three referees, and the Master's thesis
summary (max. one page). Review of applications will
begin 15.05.2022, but applications will be accepted until
the position is lled.
UNIL is committed to equal opportunities and diver-
sity: www.unil.ch/egalite UNIL supports early career
researchers: www.unil.ch/graduatecampus
Claus Wedekind <claus.wedekind@unil.ch >
UNeuchatel
ComparativeGenomicsButteries
Unravel the genomic architecture and evolutionary im-
pact of chromosomal fusion and ssion in Lepidoptera
Barriers to gene ow that lead to reproductive isola-
tion are essential for speciation. Large-scale genomic
rearrangements through chromosomal fusion and ssion
may represent such barriers, but the underlying genomic
features and their contribution to speciation are poorly
understood. This project aims to resolve the genomic
architecture and evolutionary impact of chromosomal
fusion and ssion in one of the most karyological di-
verse groups of butteries - Erebia. You will generate
chromosome-scale genome assemblies and analyse them
with comparative genomic and phylogenomic methods.
The goal is also to assess the impact of these chro-
mosomal rearrangements on rates of speciation. The
prospective PhD student will be supervised by Kay
Lucek and be part of the Biodiversity Genomics group
at the University of Neuchatel in Switzerland.
Your prole: Enthusiastic, self-driven, responsible, and
highly-motivated; excellent communication and inter-
personal skills in verbal and written English; a strong
work ethic. The ideal candidate brings strong concep-
tual thinking together with profound genomic and/or
bioinformatic skills. Applicants should have a Master
degree in evolutionary biology, genomics, bioinformatics,
or close related elds. We oer you: A cutting-edge,four-year position fully funded by the Swiss National
Science Foundation (SNSF), based at the Institute of
Biology, University of Neuchatel, Switzerland. The In-
stitute oers a vibrant and interdisciplinary research
environment, combining a broad spectrum of research
activities in life sciences, including evolutionary genetics,
conservation, ecology and microbial biology. Salary and
social benets are provided according to University of
Neuchatel rules. Neuchatel is an enchanting historic
Swiss city, well connected and oering a broad range of
cultural and recreational activities.
Starting date: The anticipated starting date is the 1st
of August 2022, with some exibility.
Application: Motivated applicants should submit (1) a
one-page letter describing yourself, your career goals,
and your match to the above-mentioned project, (2) a
CV describing your education, publications, and rele-
vant work experience, (3) copies of undergraduate and
masters/diploma transcripts, and (4) contact informa-
tion of two references. The application deadline is 22nd
of April 2022. Please, send all the information in a single
PDF to Kay Lucek (kay.lucek@unibas.ch). For further
questions, please contact me @ kay.lucek@unibas.ch
Kay Lucek <kay.lucek@unibas.ch >
UParis Saclay
TransposableElementsAdaptation
[PhD advertisement Univ. Paris Saclay] ADAPTIVE
ROLE OF TRANSPOSABLE ELEMENTS IN FRUIT
TREES IN RESPONSE TO BIOTIC STRESS, deadline
for application : 29 April 2022
We are seeking candidates for a PhD to joint
the Cornille?s Lab (ECLECTIC group?: http://-
moulon.inrae.fr/en/equipes/eclectic/) working on the
genomics and ecology of fruit tree-pest interactions at
the laboratoire G?n?tique Quantitative et Evolution-Le
Moulon at the Institut Diversit? ?cologie et ?volution du
Vivant (https://www.ideev.universite-paris-saclay.fr/-
en/) at Universit? Paris Saclay (https://www.universite-
paris-saclay.fr/en Ile-de-France, France) within the ANR
PLEASURE project (https://anr.fr/Project-ANR-21-
CE20-0005).
Keywords: adaptation, fruit trees, epigenomics - methy-
lation, gene expression, evolution, pests?
Objectifs The aim of the PhD project is to investigateApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 45
the eect of TE insertion on gene expression in response
to biotic stress in fruit trees, using a population genomics
lens. To that aim, the PhD candidate will undertake a
rigorous analysis of the impact of TE insertion polymor-
phism on gene expression in crop and wild populations
of an emblematic fruit tree, the apple tree, for which
a very large amount of genomic data is available. The
PhD project is structured into two interconnected ques-
tions, that will be subsequently Investigated, which rely
on exposure of crop and wild apple populations to pest
attack and the investigation of the involvement of TEs
in this stress response: 1) What is the eect of TE
insertion on gene expression in response to biotic stress
in a context of fruit tree domestication? 2) What is the
impact of DNA methylation variants in TE repression in
response to biotic stress in the context of fruit tree do-
mestication? ? M?thods -populations genomics of trans-
posable elements; -epigenomics (methylation marks);
-bioinformatics (scripting in perl/python/shell, access
to informatics clusters); -experiments in controlled con-
ditions (aphid rearing, apple culture) -molecular biology
(RNA and DNA extraction).
Prole and skills required? Knowledge in 1) evolution-
ary biology and population genomics is required (in
gene expression analyses or on transposable elements
evolution will be a plus) and 2) bioinformatics (writing
scripts, e.g., in perl/python/R/shell, access to comput-
ing clusters). Knowledge of 3) epigenomics will be a
plus. The candidate should not necessarily be familiar
with tree or insect models.
Collaborations? The PhD candidate will take advan-
tage of the collaborative network involved in the project:
CNRGV (molecular biology expert), URGI (expert on
TE annotation), GQE-Le Moulon (expert in population
and comparative genomics, fruit tree biology).
Application. Two steps process: - Before the 28th April:
https://www.adum.fr/as/ed/voirproposition.pl?site=-
PSaclay&matricule prop=39544? - The candidate will
be selected by the lab between the 28th April to the
9th May to defend the project at the Doctoral school
Science du V?g?tal in June 2022.
Feel free to contact directly at amandine.cornille@cnrs.fr
Leader of the?Ecological genomics of multi-species
interactions?group CNRS?Researcher G?n?tique
Quantitative et ?volution - Le Moulon? Universit?
Paris-Saclay -?INRAE - CNRS - AgroParisTech?
Institut Diversit? Ecologie et Evolution du Vivant
j?12 Route 128 j?91272 Gif-sur-Yvette j?France
phone : +33 6 72 44 85 55 j?+33 1 69 33 23
52? Twitter:?@CornilleAmand or @PommierVerger
Google Scholar prole :?https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=EqIE2h8AAAAJ&hl=fr Personal page:?http://moulon.inrae.fr/personnes/acornille/ Group
page:???http://moulon.inrae.fr/en/equipes/eclectic/
On the ESEB-STN network on the ecological genomics
of coevolution:?https://eseb.org/prizes-funding/special-
topic-networks/stn-current-networks/ecological-
genomics-of-coevolutionary-interactions/ On the wild
apple orchard project:?https://www.ideev.universite-
paris-saclay.fr/en/the-orchard?or @PommierVerger
Amandine Cornille <amandine.cornille@gmail.com >
USBohemia Czechia
EvolutionaryGenomicsButteries
Graduate position: USBo-
hemia Czechia.EvolutionaryGenomicsButteries
New PhD Position: Evolutionary genomics of butter-
ies in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest (Please, feel free
to distribute to all potential candidates) Open until the
position is lled by the right candidate.
You will be part of an exciting research project study-
ing species diversication and distributional patterns
of Lepidoptera (butteries and moths) of the Brazilian
Atlantic Forest. The goal of the PhD position is to
infer macroevolutionary drivers of extant ecological pat-
terns along altitude and latitude, and to test competing
hypotheses for understanding parapatric speciation on
tropical mountain ranges.
You will generate new data using whole-genome rese-
quencing to infer species-level phylogenies and to com-
pute metrics of genomic regions of divergence between
parapatric, sister species. It is expected that this frame-
work will allow you to test the roles of abiotic factors
(temperature, altitudinal gradients) in shaping the ex-
tant species and genetic diversity of butteries in a
tropical biodiversity hotspot.
Priority will be given to candidates who have co-
authored at least one scientic publication (including
submitted and accepted manuscripts). Experience with
molecular phylogenetics, population genetics and/or
analysis of high-throughput DNA sequencing data using
bioinformatic pipelines is advantageous.
The results will be part of a larger multidisciplinary
research aiming at determining the evolutionary mech-
anisms that shaped current Lepidoptera biodiversity
patterns (centers of endemism and species richness) in
the Atlantic Forest. This is a bilateral research project
that brings together two teams in the Czech Repub-46 EvolDir April 1, 2022
lic (Biology Centre, CAS) and Brazil (University of
Campinas). You will have the opportunity to carry out
eldwork in Brazil and to closely interact with Prof.
Andr e Freitas (http://tiny.cc/Freitas), Dr. Karina Silva-
Brand ao (http://tiny.cc/SilvaBrandao, LIB, Hamburg),
and their research groups. As part of the international
research activities, multiple avenues for networking will
also be possible (for example, Prof. Niklas Wahlberg,
Lund University, Sweden; http://tiny.cc/Wahlberg).
The applicant must have the following qualications:
- Master's degree in biology or related elds (must be
awarded prior to the starting date). - Good commu-
nication skills in English, written and spoken. - Inde-
pendence in learning and working, with documented
productivity.
It is expected that you will enroll into the associated
PhD program (4 years) at the Faculty of Sciences, Uni-
versity of South Bohemia (https://www.prf.jcu.cz/en).
The scholarship will be a combination of research grant
salary (50%, from the Biology Centre, Czech Academy
of Sciences, https://www.entu.cas.cz/en/) plus student
stipends (50% from the University of South Bohemia),
fully covering living expenses with a comfortable margin
in the Czech Republic. The research facility is in Ceske
Budejovice, a charming historical city in the south of
the country, within an easy reach of Prague and Vienna.
Our working environment (Department of Ecology, led
by Prof. Vojt Ach Novotn ~A1
2, http://tiny.cc/Novotny)
is highly diverse and international (16 nationalities from
4 dierent continents).
The application is by e-mail (to
pavel.matos@entu.cas.cz) and must be written in
English. The following documents must be attached
in one single PDF le: - Cover letter, stating your
motivation, how your background and skills t the
project, and your potential plans for this position (max.
2 pages). - CV, including contact details of at least two
referees that are familiar with your work.
The position is open until the right candidate is found.
The top ranked candidates will be selected for an in-
terview in English (by phone/skype). The start date
is upon agreement, but the successful applicant is ex-
pected to start during summer (northern hemisphere)
2022.
For further information, please do not hesitate to contact
me.
Dr. Pavel Matos-Maravi Biology Centre, Czech
Academy of Sciences Branisovska 31, 37005, Ceske Bude-
jovice, Czech Republic Email: pavel.matos@entu.cas.cz
Web: http://pavelmatos.wordpress.com Matos Mar-
avi Pavel Fortunato <pavel.matos@entu.cas.cz >MatosMaravi Pavel Fortunato <pavel.matos@entu.cas.cz >
USussex
JohnMaynardSmithStudentship
A John Maynard Smith studentship is available at the
University of Sussex to study \What determines lev-
els of adaptive genetic diversity" with Professor Adam
Eyre-Walker. Crucial to the adaptive process is genetic
variation that selection can act upon. Surprisingly we
know relatively little about this type of genetic variation.
We know that most organisms have quantitative genetic
variation (QGV) for most traits, but we do not know to
what extent this variation varies between species, and if
it does vary, what factors inuence the level of genetic
variation. In this project we will quantify how much
variation there is between species and explore the forces
that inuence the level of QGV. We will also explore a
model by which adaptive evolution aects genetic diver-
sity, proposed by John Maynard Smith, the founding
father of Life Sciences at the University of Sussex. There
will be opportunities to develop novel lines of enquiry
that build upon these themes. The project should give
us new insights into this crucial component of genetic
diversity.
The project will involve bioinformatics, statistical and
theoretical analysis. Ideal candidates should have a good
understanding of evolutionary biology and population
genetics and some experience of computer programming
and statistical analysis. The project will allow the stu-
dent to develop their expertise in these elds.
Informal enquiries can be made to Prof Adam Eyre-
Walker (a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk). Applications
should be made through the University of Sussex's on-
line application system by March 13th 2022; under the
funding section enter the John Maynard Smith stu-
dentship.
Adam Eyre-Walker Professor of Biology School of Life
Sciences University of Sussex Brighton UK
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5527-8729 Google
scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
p7SOj3IbOCIC&hl=en&oi=ao Adam Eyre-Walker
<a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 47
UTartu Estonia HumanPopGenetics
Hello, here at the Institute of Genomics of the Univer-
sity of Tartu, Estonia, we are looking for promising
candidates for a PhD position in Human Population
Genetics, opening soon at our institute.
*Please send a motivation letter and a short CV to
vasili.pankratov@ut.ee*
*PhD position in modern population genetics (4 years,
fully funded)* Institute of Genomics, Estonian Biocen-
tre, Supervisors: Dr. Vasili Pankratov, Dr. Francesco
Montinaro, Prof. Luca Pagani Deadline for this call:
31.03.2022 (please get in touch if you cannot make the
deadline)
*Project title and description:* /\Exploring the genetic
correlates of social stratication in Estonia"/
The recent history of Estonia has been very complex,
with several historical and geo-political events that have
aected the social conformation of the country. In this
context, a recent survey on a small subset of Estonians
has demonstrated that the SNP-heritability for some
behavioral traits such as occupational status and Ed-
ucational attainment is signicantly dierent between
individuals that lived most of their early stage of theirlife in ??Pre- and Post Soviet times. Another, deeper
layer of variance is represented by uneven contribution
of ancient populations to the various Estonian coun-
ties. The impact of ancient genetics to the phenotypic
landscape of modern Europeans has been recently inves-
tigated in Estonian biobank and will constitute essential
background information, which will also be feedbacked
to the Biobank participants ??during the course of this
project. Building from this evidence and leveraging the
available genetic data for more than 200,000 samples in
the EGCUT biobank, the PhD candidate will therefore
explore and evaluate the existence of genetic variation
correlated with geography in Estonia, taking into con-
sideration multiple phenotypes, such as bmi, height,
educational attainment and occupational status in light
of recent migratory patterns and ancient population
layering.
*Required qualications* MSc in Bioinformatics, Bio-
statistics, Molecular Biology, Medical Genetics or related
subjects.
*Required skills* Advanced programming skills in at
least one of the following languages are mandatory: R,
Perl, Python, C++;
*Required language skills* English
*Starting on * 01.09.2022
*Workload * 1,0
*Net scholarship* after all taxes (incl. coverage of medi-
cal insurance and pension): up to 15 600 EUR/year.
Vasili <vasili.pankratov@ut.ee >
Jobs
BinghamtonU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
BotanyMuseumNewZealand CollectionManager . . . .49
ColoradoStateU Manager ConservationGenomics . . 49
Denver MuseumNatSci AssistCollectionsManager . . 50
EarlhamInst Norwich Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
EcoHealthAlliance NewYork WildlifeBiosurveillance 52
EcoHealthAlliance NYC PathogenBioinformatics . . 52
EmoryU 3 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
HarvardU LabTech Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
ISEA PolishAcademySciences Bioinformatics . . . . . . 54
JohannesGutenberg UMainz PlantEvolution . . . . . . . 55JohannesGutenbergU PlantEvolutionaryEcology . . .56
LingnanU HongKong ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
MIT Massachusetts LabTech PlantGenetics . . . . . . . 57
MortonArboretum Illinois ResAssist TreeConservation
57
NMBU Norway BioinformaticsSeniorEngineer . . . . . 58
Norway CryptogamEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
NSF USA ProgramDirectorInSystematicsBiodiversity
59
OxfordCollegeEmoryU 2 VisitingAssistProfessor . . . 60
SGN Tubingen Tech HumanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6148 EvolDir April 1, 2022
StateUNewYork Oswego EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . 62
StCloudU Minnesota PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Trinidad PaidResearchInternships FishEvol . . . . . . . .64
UAberdeen FieldWork RangeShifts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UArizona TeachingInsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UCalifornia Berkeley OrnithologyCurator . . . . . . . . . 66
UColorado Denver TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UConnecticut Tech SticklebackStockCenter . . . . . . . .67
UEastAnglia ResTech ZebrashEvolution . . . . . . . . . .68UFreiburg MolecularEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . 69
UHull UK 5 EvolutionAI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UMinnesota TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
UMontreal AnimalGenommics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71
USFWS NationalHatcheryOperationsCoordinator . 72
UZurich LabManager PlantMicrobeInteractions . . . 72
WageningenU EvolutionSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
BinghamtonU EvolutionaryEcol
Lecturer in Ecology
About Binghamton University:
Binghamton University is a world-class institution that
unites more than 130 broadly interdisciplinary educa-
tional programs with some of the most vibrant research
in the nation. Our unique character - shaped by out-
standing academics, facilities and community life - pro-
motes extraordinary student success.
Binghamton merges rigorous academics, distinguished
faculty and state-of-the-art facilities to engage and chal-
lenge its 18,000 students. The high-achieving Bingham-
ton student body also represents a great diversity of life
experiences, from rst-generation college-goers to inter-
national students. Beyond their talent, these classmates
share a desire to shape the future through technology,
insight, intellectual exploration and community service.
Job Description:
The Department of Biological Sciences at Bingham-
ton University (http://www.binghamton.edu/biology/)
invites applications for a Lecturer with expertise in pop-
ulation, community, evolutionary, or ecosystem ecology.
Successful applicants are expected to contribute to teach-
ing ecology-related courses including the instruction of
a large-enrollment Ecology course (Biol 355).
The department is committed to equity and inclusion
and is actively working to increase diversity amongst
its faculty. Members of groups historically underrep-
resented in the eld and those from non-traditional
backgrounds are strongly encouraged to apply. Addi-
tionally, evidence of a commitment to advancing equity
and inclusion through research, teaching, and/or service
will be valued.
Initial appointment is for one year, beginning August
22, 2022, with the possibility of renewal.Requirements:
Ph.D. required, ABD status considered.Prior experience
in teaching Ecology and related coursesPreference given
to candidates with demonstrated experience in teaching
large enrollment courses, interest and ability in the use
of alternative and innovative instructional methods, and
familiarity with the use of technology in the classroom.
Additional Information:
The State University of New York is an Equal Op-
portunity/Armative Action Employer. It is the pol-
icy of Binghamton University to provide for and pro-
mote equal opportunity employment, compensation, and
other terms and conditions of employment without dis-
crimination on the basis of age, race, color, religion,
disability, national origin, gender identity or expression,
sexual orientation, veteran or military service member
status, marital status, domestic violence victim status,
genetic predisposition or carrier status, or arrest and/or
criminal conviction record unless based upon a bona
de occupational qualication or other exception.
As required by title IX and its implementing regulations,
Binghamton University does not discriminate on the
basis of sex in the educational programs and activities
which it operates. This requirement extends to employ-
ment and admission. Inquiries about sex discrimination
may be directed to the University Title IX Coordinator
or directly to the Oce of Civil Rights (OCR). Contact
information for the Title IX Coordinator and OCR, as
well as the University's complete Non-Discrimination
Notice may be foundhere.
Pursuant to Executive Order 161, no State entity, as
dened by the Executive Order, is permitted to ask, or
mandate, in any form, that an applicant for employment
provide his or her current compensation, or any prior
compensation history, until such time as the applicant
is extended a conditional oer of employment with com-
pensation. If such information has been requested from
you before such time, please contact the Governor's
Oce of Employee Relations at (518) 474-6988 or via
email atinfo@goer.ny.gov.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 49
Binghamton University is a tobacco-free campus eec-
tive August 1, 2017.
Applicants should submit a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, statement of teaching experience and philos-
ophy, and the names and contact information of 3
individuals to provide letters of recommendation to
www.interviewexchange.com . Applications will be re-
viewed until the position is lled.
Jamie Silverio <jsilveri@binghamton.edu >
BotanyMuseumNewZealand
CollectionManager
Job vacancy: Kaitiaki Taonga Collection Manager,
Botany Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa,
Wellington
The Natural History Team currently has a vacancy for a
permanent full time Kaitiaki Taonga Collection Manager
to work with the Botany Collections.
We are looking for applications from candidates who
have: - A tertiary qualication in a relevant subject
related to biological sciences - Knowledge of plant sys-
tematics is desirable - Previous experience in a collection
management or registration role, with a sound working
knowledge of collection management practices - Demon-
strated ability to work eectively both independently
and as part of a team - Ability to spend signicant time
working in the collections and remain motivated when
undertaking very repetitive tasks - Extensive experience
working with a Collection Information Systems and good
working knowledge of MS Oce Suite and database ap-
plications - Knowledge and experience in meeting appli-
cable regulatory and compliance requirements including
attaining permits, licenses and certications e.g. CITES,
HSNO and PC1 containment facilities - Demonstrated
ability to build and maintain robust working relation-
ships with internal colleagues and external stakeholders
- Proven time management capability and can deliver
within tight timeframes.
The starting salary range will be between $66,761 to
$83,451. Oers will be made within the range to reect
the skills and experience oered by the candidate and
those required of the role, and internal relativities with
other employees.
To apply for this opportunity please send an expression
of interest setting out your skills and relevant experi-
ence in a cover letter and Curriculum vitae to* recruit-ment@tepapa.govt.nz* by C.O.B *Thursday March 10
2022.*
salvador.rodrigo.b@gmail.com
ColoradoStateU Manager
ConservationGenomics
Lab and Collections Manager Position: Conservation
Genomics, Colorado State University
The Funk Lab at Colorado State University is seeking a
highly organized, enthusiastic, and motivated scientist to
ll a Conservation Genomics Lab and Collections Man-
ager position. The successful candidate will work closely
with our multi-disciplinary team of post-docs, graduate
students, other research sta, and faculty within the
Biology Department at Colorado State. For more infor-
mation on our research, please see the Funk Lab website
(http://funklab.colostate.edu/).
Duties will include, but are not limited to: - Prepar-
ing DNA sequencing libraries (whole genome, myBaits
targeted capture, RADseq, etc.). - DNA extractions
from a variety of tissue types. - Managing and train-
ing undergraduate research assistant and work study
students. - Ordering supplies and equipment mainte-
nance. - Curating a tissue sample collection. - Renewing
permits and submitting annual reports to appropriate
agencies. - Maintaining collaborator relations, shipping
sampling supplies, and receiving samples. - Maintaining
compliance with environmental and safety procedures. -
Managing written protocols, Standard Operating Pro-
cedures, etc. for lab and eld work.
Minimum Qualications Include: - Bachelors degree in
biology, genetics, ecology, sh and wildlife biology, or a
related eld. - Strong organizational skills and attention
to detail. - Ability to work as part of a team as well as
accomplish tasks independently. - Excellent communi-
cation skills and a willingness to follow instructions and
direct others when needed. - Excellent and thorough
laboratory notebook maintenance abilities. - Experi-
ence with basic and intermediate laboratory methods,
including pipetting, PCR, gel electrophoresis, and DNA
extraction. - Strong desire to learn new genomic se-
quencing methodologies.
Also strongly desired: - Experience with the DNA li-
brary preparation protocols listed above. - Experience
with database management. - Graduate degree in bi-
ology, genetics, ecology, sh and wildlife biology, or a50 EvolDir April 1, 2022
related eld.
Start date and duration: Preferred start date is on or
before May 1, 2022, but is open to negotiation. Initially,
the appointment will be for a period of 12 months, with
the possibility of extension dependent upon performance
and the availability of research funds.
Applications: Interested applicants should send appli-
cations to Chris Funk (Chris.Funk@colostate.edu) by
March 31, 2022. Please include a cover letter, CV, and
contact information for 3 references saved as a single
PDF le. In the cover letter please highlight your previ-
ous laboratory experience and interest in conservation
genomics. Subject line should be \Funk Lab Manager
Application". This will be a full-time position, with
benets and an annual salary commensurate with expe-
rience.
\Funk,Chris" <Chris.Funk@colostate.edu >
Denver MuseumNatSci
AssistCollectionsManager
From: Andrew Doll Andrew.Doll@dmns.org Sent:
March 21, 2022 4:10 PM To: Golding, Brian gold-
ing@mcmaster.ca Subject: DMNS job posting
The Denver Museum of Nature & Science seeks an Assis-
tant Collections Manager in the Integrative Collections
Branch to support the Invertebrate Zoology Collections.
This position supports the collections and research ac-
tivities of the Zoology Department as it curates a taxo-
nomically diverse, scientically valuable, and well cared
for collection of specimens. The Invertebrate Zoology
Collections currently hold approximately 1.19M spec-
imens and specimen lots in the areas of Arachnology,
Entomology, and Marine Invertebrates.
The Zoology Department seeks to document and pre-
serve the biodiversity of the Rocky Mountain region and
beyond for scientic research and education while ad-
hering to current best-practice guidelines. This position
facilitates eorts to preserve and protect the collections
on a long-term basis, to increase access and grow sci-
entic output, to manage and expand collections, and
to help inspire diverse communities' understanding of,
and involvement in, biodiversity and the natural world.
DMNS is especially interested in candidates whose back-
ground and experience have prepared them to contribute
to our commitments to co-create a museum-wide DEAI
(Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, Inclusion) strategy, andto nd ways for diverse communities to engage with the
Museum in meaningful ways.
This position reports to the Zoology Collections Man-
ager. This is a term position that ends on 12/31/2027.
Essential duties:
§Assists with professional collections management for
all collections.
§Assists with the accession, deaccession, documentation,
registration, organization, and preparation of collections
as assigned.
§Implements training, monitoring, and daily supervision
of interns and volunteers as assigned.
§Responds to internal and external queriesand requests,
and facilitates loans and use of collections.
§Assists in maintaining collections metadata, including
digital records and associated multimedia les.
§Implements and ensures adherence to all safety proto-
cols in collections.
§Supports and delivers internal and external outreach
programs as appropriate or required.
§Other duties as assigned. Minimum qualica-
tions/Requirements:
§Bachelor's degree in Zoology or relatedeld required.
§1 year museum collections management experience re-
quired.
§1 year relational database experience required.
§Occasional local and out of state travel required.
§Evening and weekend shifts as needed required.
§Ability to handle biological material andmuseum spec-
imens in adherence with safety and departmental proto-
cols required.
§The Museum loves science. As a science institution,
the Museum believes in the science behind vaccines. Ef-
fective September 1, 2021, all persons oered a position
will be required to provide valid proof of full vaccination
against COVID-19 prior to starting employment.
Physical Requirements of job:
§Ability to sit and/or stand for up to 8 hours at a time.
§Moderate physical activity required by handling objects
up to 50 pounds occasionally, up to 30 pounds frequently,
and up to 100 pounds (with assistance) rarely.
Ideal candidate will have:
§Master's degree in Zoology or related eld
§Experience working with zoological museumspecimens;April 1, 2022 EvolDir 51
particularly invertebrate animals
§Understanding and experience with taxonomic con-
cepts and phylogenetic organization
§Experience moving and reorganizing collections
§Supervisory experience with interns and volunteers
§Advanced collections management database experience,
including data imports and large dataset proong and
cleanup
§Experience managing multiple projects at once, includ-
ing the ability to create and implement both short-term
and long-term plans
§Experience engaging diverse audiences in science or
through science communication
§Proven record of being a highly motivated, proactive
team player
§Exceptional organizational skills
Corevalues:
§We love science.
§We are curious, creative and playful.
§We cultivate relationships with each other, diverse
communities, the environment and for our future.
§We think critically and act with empathy. Perks and-
Benets of working at the Denver Museum of Nature &
Science include:
A comprehensive benets package including medical,
dental, and vision coverage. 100% paid life insurance and
long-term disability insurance. Paid time-o for vaca-
tion, sickness and holidays. 403(b) Retirement Plan with
immediate eligibility to contribute and, after one year
of employment, an employer contribution and match.
An RTD Eco pass and afree Family+ membership to
the Denver Museum of Nature & Science.
The full range of perks and benets can be
foundHERE. (https://www.dmns.org/about/careers/-
employee-benets/)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlEarlhamInst Norwich Bioinformatics
Bioinformatician
Applications are invited for a Bioinformatician to join
the Laboratoryof Dr Falk Hildebrand at the Earlham
Institute based in Norwich, UK.
The Hildebrand group is researching bacteria and mi-
croeukaryotes through metagenomics, having three re-
search themes: the diversity, community interactions,
and evolution of microbes. The group develops and
maintains various metagenomics software tools, for fur-
ther information see www.falk.science . Background:
Can we use genome resolved metagenomics to under-
stand the evolution and ecology of microbial communi-
ties?
Characterizing the exible bacterial pangenome and
species interactions is central to understanding
microbial ecosystems (doi:10.1038/s41586-018-0386-
6, 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-317715). In the Hildebrand
group we combine strain resolved metagenomics
with reconstructions of sample specic microbial
genomes, to understand persistence, dispersaland evo-
lution of microbes in the gut and other ecosystems
(doi:10.1016/j.chom.2021.05.008), with an interest in in-
terkingdom interactions (doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.15314).
The role of community interactions and short-term evo-
lution in maintainingresilient ecosystems is so far un-
explored, and requires novel bioinformatic algorithms
combined with emerging sequencing-based technologies.
The role:
This post requires an experienced bioinformatician with
an interest tostudy reconstructed microbial genomes
in metagenomes (bacterial, archaeal,fungal). The post-
holder will be involved in conceptualizing & implement-
ing bioinformatic pipelines to analyse large time-series
metagenomes (human gut, soil, .), based on data from
2nd and 3rd gen sequencing platforms, such as illumina,
PacBio, ONT, Hi-C & single cell sequencing data. The
analysis will be published in research papers that the
candidate should be leading. The ideal candidate:
To full this role, we are looking for a research-focused
Bioinformatician, with experience in either metage-
nomics, population genetics, GWAS, analysing genomes
(eukaryotic or prokaryotic), assembly/binning algo-
rithms, single cell sequencing or genomics technologies.52 EvolDir April 1, 2022
The candidate will work independently, with other group
members, and with national and international collabo-
rators to generate and analyse data.
Previous experience in publishing scientic work, devel-
oping and optimising bioinformatic tools or numerical
ecology is essential. Training willbe available in all
aspects of the work, although it is expected that appli-
cants will have a strong background in bioinformatics
and genetics.
Furthermore, good organisational skills and the abil-
ity to communicate and work productively within a
multidisciplinary team will be crucial. An interest in
community microbiology (such as gut microbiome) will
be advantageous, but prior experience or knowledge of
metagenomics is not a requirement.
Additional information:
Salary on appointment will be within the range 32,578
to 39,938 per annum depending on qualications and
experience. This is a full-time post for a contract of 3
years.
Interview will be held on 25th April 2022.
For further information and details of how to apply,
please visit our website http://jobs.earlham.ac.uk/ or
contact the Human Resources team on 01603 450462 or
nbi.recruitment@nbi.ac.uk quoting reference 1004217.
As a Disability Condent employer, we guarantee to
oer an interview to all disabled applicants who meet
the essential criteria for this vacancy.
The closing date for applications willbe 14th April 2022.
Kind regards,
Georgina Roberts HR Advisor (Recruitment) Human
Resources
NBI Partnership, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Nor-
wich, NR4 7UH
I am sometimes working remotely but can be contacted
as normal by: Email: georgina.roberts@nbi.ac.uk
Tel: 01603 450462 or Ext 2462
The NBI Partnership Ltd provides non-scientic services
to the John Innes Centre, The Sainsbury Laboratory, the
Earlham Institute and the Quadram InstituteBioscience
\Georgina Roberts (NBI)"
<Georgina.Roberts@nbi.ac.uk >EcoHealthAlliance NewYork
WildlifeBiosurveillance
Research Scientist - Phylogenetic andWildlife Biosurveil-
lance Data Analysis at EcoHealth Alliance?
https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/career/-
phylogenetic-research-scientist Kevin Olival
<olival@ecohealthalliance.org >
EcoHealthAlliance NYC
PathogenBioinformatics
EcoHealth Alliance seeks a Bioinformatician with sig-
nicant experience in the analysis and curation of high-
throughput sequencing data, as well as skills in software
development. We are looking for a scientist with excel-
lent computational and analytical skills to assist in the
analysis of metagenomic and genomic sequencing data,
as well as develop and benchmark custom in-house ana-
lytical pipelines. We are seeking someone with excellent
computational and analytical skills, strong communi-
cation skills, and the ability to work with a diverse,
multi-disciplinary team that includes scientists from
across the globe. This is a key position at a rapidly
growing NGO with diverse, federally funded scientic
research programs around the world focused on zoonotic
disease emergence. The Bioinformatician will work to
accelerate the use of high-throughput sequencing and
metagenomics as a tool to understand the emergence of
zoonotic diseases across multiple projects, while actively
and collaboratively working to integrate genetic and
genomic data into ecological and evolutionary models of
disease emergence and spread. The Bioinformatician will
be expected to participate and interact with scientists
within the group, publish their work in peer-reviewed
journals, and share their code openly. The successful
applicant will be a key contributor to our 'think-tank'
on emerging infectious diseases and will help determine
the direction of our research moving forward. Above
all, a passion for understanding the process of zoonotic
disease emergence is key. The position is based at Eco-
Health Alliance in New York City and may involve some
international travel.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 53
For Information on Responsibilities, Qualications, and
How to Apply please see:
https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/career/-
bioinformatician Contact me on Twitter: @CadhlaFirth
{
*Cadhla Firth, PhD *she/her *Senior Research Scientist
and Program Coordinator*
EcoHealth Alliance 520 Eighth Avenue, Ste. 1200 New
York, NY 10018
+61.447.361.669 (mobile) www.ecohealthalliance.org
*EcoHealth Alliance develops science-based solutions to
prevent pandemics and promote conservation**.*
rth@ecohealthalliance.org
EmoryU 3 EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Biology at Emory University in-
vites applications for three lecture track faculty posi-
tions. We seek candidates with a Ph.D. in the biolog-
ical sciences with a strong commitment to pedagogy
and a specic interest in teaching and advising under-
graduates from a diversity of backgrounds. Applicants
having prior experience with evidence-based teaching
practices are encouraged to apply; postdoctoral experi-
ence is preferred. Faculty appointments will be made
at the lecture track rank of Lecturer or Senior Lec-
turer commensurate with current academic standing
and achievement (see description of ranks and terms
at http://college.emory.edu/faculty/documents/lecture-
track/ltf-policy-appointment-review.pdf).
Established over 20 years ago, Emory College has one of
the strongest and longest-running teaching tracks in the
country with over 100 lecture track faculty. Successful
candidates will demonstrate experience and ability to
teach introductory biology and/or upper level lecture
and lab courses including, but not limited to, ecology
and evolution, comparative vertebrate anatomy, physi-
ology, biochemistry, or genetics.In addition to teaching,
commonly four courses per year, successful applicants
will be expected to contribute to the academic life and
governance of the Department, College of Arts and Sci-
ences, and the University. The appointee will join a
cohesive group of tenure track (27) and lecture track
(11) faculty working collaboratively in the teaching, re-
search, and service missions of Emory University. De-
partment of Biology faculty are committed to creatinga respectful community of educators and scholars and
seek colleagues who are eager to nurture and support
growth of students, sta, and faculty, including BIPOC,
LGBTQ+, rst generation and international community
members, as well as community members with disabil-
ities, among others (http://www.biology.emory.edu/-
biology-at-emory). Emory is a top 20 research university
located in Atlanta, a culturally diverse city of historical
signicance in the modern civil rights movement. At-
lanta (https://discoveratlanta.com/) oers a variety of
cultural, social, and recreational opportunities with a
mild climate. Application procedure: Application ma-
terials are submitted via Interfolio using the following
linkapply.interfolio.com/103517and include the follow-
ing materials: 1) Cover letter 2) Curriculum vitae (CV)
3) A statement of teaching experience, interests and
philosophy. 4) A statement detailing your experience
and philosophy regarding teaching and mentoring stu-
dents from diverse backgrounds and/or contributions to
social justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. ^A 5) Any
additional information related to professional develop-
ment, pedagogical scholarship or evidence of teaching
eectiveness that speaks to your commitment to teach-
ing and mentoring of undergraduates. Items 3-5 should
not exceed six pages combined. Review of applications
will start April 1st; to ensure full consideration, all ma-
terials should be received by May 1st. For technical
assistance with Interfolio, contacthelp@interfolio.comor
call (877) 977-8807.For questions about the position,
please contact the chair of the search committee Patrick
Caerty, PhD at pcaer@emory.edu Emory University is
an equal employment opportunity and armative action
employer. Women, minorities, people with disabilities,
and veterans are strongly encouraged to apply.
patrick.w.caerty@emory.edu
patrick.w.caerty@emory.edu
HarvardU LabTech Adaptation
The Hopkins lab at Harvard University is seeking a
full-time research technician.
Please apply with your CV and cover letter here:
https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/-
Home?partnerid=3D25240&siteid=5341#jobDetails=-
1944746 5341 Our research focuses on understanding the
evolutionary forces driving adaptation and speciation.
We use a variety of population genetic, and molecular
evolution techniques to study selection, gene ow, and54 EvolDir April 1, 2022
adaptive mutations in plants. Much of our work focuses
on characterizing reproductive isolation between species
and mate choice within species. This position will
involve assisting researchers with a variety of laboratory
tasks including:
 >1
2Extraction of DNA and RNA
 >1
2Next-generation and third-generation sequencing
library preparation
 >1
2PCR and gel electrophoresis
 >1
2Cloning, subcloning, and cell culturing
 >1
2Preparation of stocks, buers, and media with sterile
technique
 >1
2Organizing and summarizing data, in collaboration
with team
 >1
2Working collaboratively with senior scientists on
design, planning, and optimization of experiments
We are looking for someone excited to learn laboratory
skills while studying evolutionary biology, plant biology,
speciation, and population genetics. We would like to
nd someone organized, self-motivated, detail oriented,
and with strong communication skills. Ideally, candi-
dates will have some research experience or course work
in evolution, genetics, or plant biology.
The Hopkins lab (http://hopkins-lab.org/) is part of
the Organismic and Evolutionary Biology department
at Harvard University, which is diverse and vibrant with
a broad range of research and teaching interest. Our lab
is located at the Arnold Arboretum research building
in Boston.
In the Hopkins lab we believe the strength and excellence
of our community stems from our diversity of identities,
experiences, and perspectives. We are an equal oppor-
tunity employer and all qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status,
protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orien-
tation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or
any other characteristic protected by law.
Please contact Robin Hopkins (rhop-
kins@fas.harvard.edu with questions
rhopkins@fas.harvard.edu rhopkins@fas.harvard.eduISEA PolishAcademySciences
Bioinformatics
The Department of Molecular Biodiversity at Institute of
Systematics and Evolution of Animals Polish Academy
of Sciences invites applications for adjunct (assistant
professor) position. We seek candidates with a PhD in
bioinformatics, biotechnology, biology or related elds
with experience in the study of organisms at the intra-
and interspecies levels using next-generation sequenc-
ing, and particularly in bioinformatics analyses and
visualization of data generated using next-generation
sequencing.
The Department of Molecular Biodiversity (http://-
www.isez.pan.krakow.pl/en/department-experimental-
zoology.html) conducts research focusing on phy-
logeography, phylogenetics, molecular ecology and
conservation genetics of various groups of organisms
(mostly insects, protists and birds).
Requirements:
- PhD in bioinformatics, biotechnology, biology or re-
lated elds;
- ability to work in environments of various operating
systems (incl. LINUX);
- knowledge of Phyton and / or R programming lan-
guages, incl. selected libraries for the analysis of biolog-
ical data;
- experience in preparing genomic libraries;
- the experience in bioinformatics analyses and visualiza-
tion of data generated using next-generation sequencing:
- quality control,
- demultiplexing,
- identication of single nucleotide polymorphisms and
their use in phylogenetic and population analyses;
- the experience in the study of organisms at the intra-
and interspecies levels using next-generation sequencing
and Sanger sequencing;
- scientic achievements documented by publications in
renowned international journals, indexed in the Journal
Citation Reports;
- documented presentation of the results (oral) at inter-
national conferences;April 1, 2022 EvolDir 55
- documented international cooperation, including in-
ternships;
- documented participation in research projects;
- scientic independence and readiness to work in a team;
- initiative to improve professional qualications;
- precise direction of further scientic development;
- uency in at least two world languages (incl. English);
Duties:
- implementation of next-generation sequencing tech-
niques and genomic bioinformatics analyses as part of
research conducted at the Department of Molecular
Biodiversity;
- supporting the employees of the Department in the
eld of bioinformatics, including:
- planning experiments and analysing data from high-
throughput research methods;
- organization and conducting of training courses on
selected bioinformatics analyses for the employees of
Institute;
- conducting phylogenetic, population-genetic and evo-
lutionary research in cooperation with employees of the
Department;
- activity in obtaining funds for research;
- archiving of scientic documentation;
- performing bioinformatic and statistical analyzes;
- publishing research results in scientic articles in
renowned international journals;
- participation in organizational and popularizing activi-
ties;
- participation in the training of students, apprentices
and volunteers.
Candidates are asked to provide the following docu-
ments:
1. Application, curriculum vitae, copies of diplomas and
other certicates conrming qualications.
2. A summary of research interests and educational
experience, as well as contemporary scientic accom-
plishments.
3. List of scientic accomplishments (books, articles,
oral speeches, involvement in projects). The list should
highlight accomplishments obtained after PhD.
4. Contact to at least two independent researchers who
can provide references.
The application documents (i.e. the Application andCV), need to be attached with the following clause:
'I consent to the processing of my personal data pro-
vided in the application documents for the purposes
of the recruitment process conducted by the Institute
of Systematics and Evolution of Animals of the Polish
Academy of Sciences, for the position indicated in the
announcement. I have been informed that providing the
consent is voluntary and that I have the right to with-
draw my consent at any time. I have also been informed
that the withdrawal of my consent will not aect the
legality of the processing that was carried out on its
basis prior to its withdrawal. Furthermore, I declare
that I have read the information clause regarding the
processing of personal data in accordance with the Reg-
ulation of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 27 April 2016, included in the recruitment announce-
ment of the Institute of Systematics and Evolution of
Animals of the Polish Academy of Sciences'.
Applications that do not meet formal requirements and
submitted after the deadline will not be considered.
Selected applicants may be called for an interview.
Documents should be submitted by e-mail to the sec-
retariat of ISEA PAS: oce@isez.pan.krakow.pl and to
the information of dr hab. ukasz
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
JohannesGutenberg UMainz
PlantEvolution
The Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution at
the Faculty of Biology, Johannes Gutenberg University
Mainz, Germany invites applications for the position of
Junior Professor of Plant Evolutionary Ecology
beginning at the earliest date possible.
Salary grade W 1 LBesG with tenure track to W 2, Civil
servant with a xed-term contract
We are seeking an internationally renowned scientist in
the eld of plant biotic interactions and evolutionary
ecology. The research of the applicant should focus on
how interactions of plants with other organisms inu-
ence evolutionary adaptations. The successful candidate56 EvolDir April 1, 2022
should use molecular techniques on the organismal level
to address fundamental questions in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, ideally covering phenotype, underlying genotype
and epigenetic processes. We particularly encourage
applicants whose research comprises theoretical meth-
ods or whose empirical investigations are amendable to
modelling.
Please apply your complete application documents (CV;
certicates; lists of publications and teaching activities;
funding record; current research and future research
plans; teaching concept) as well as the lled form avail-
able at no later than March 27th 2022 under the follow-
ing Link:
https://berufungsportal.uni-mainz.de/-
ausschreibungen/4?lang=en For questions and
further information, please contact the chairperson
of the search committee: Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik:
foitzik@uni-mainz.de
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Institute of Organismic and
Molecular Evolution Johannes Gutenberg University
Mainz Biozentrum Hanns Dieter H >1
2sch Weg 15 D-
55128 Mainz Germany Tel: +49 (0) 6131 39 27 840 Fax:
+49 (0)6131 39 27 850 Email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
\Foitzik, Susanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
JohannesGutenbergU
PlantEvolutionaryEcology
The Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution at
the Faculty of Biology, Johannes Gutenberg University
Mainz, Germany invites applications for the position of
Junior Professor of Plant Evolutionary Ecology
beginning at the earliest date possible.
Salary grade W 1 LBesG with tenure track to W 2, Civil
servant with a xed-term contract
We are seeking an internationally renowned scientist in
the eld of plant biotic interactions and evolutionary
ecology. The research of the applicant should focus on
how interactions of plants with other organisms inu-
ence evolutionary adaptations. The successful candidate
should use molecular techniques on the organismal level
to address fundamental questions in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, ideally covering phenotype, underlying genotype
and epigenetic processes. We particularly encourage
applicants whose research comprises theoretical meth-
ods or whose empirical investigations are amendable tomodelling.
Please apply your complete application documents (CV;
certicates; lists of publications and teaching activities;
funding record; current research and future research
plans; teaching concept) as well as the lled form avail-
able at no later than March 27th 2022 under the follow-
ing Link:
https://berufungsportal.uni-mainz.de/-
ausschreibungen/4?lang=en For questions and
further information, please contact the chairperson
of the search committee: Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik:
foitzik@uni-mainz.de
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Institute of Organismic and
Molecular Evolution Johannes Gutenberg University
Mainz Biozentrum Hanns Dieter H >1
2sch Weg 15 D-
55128 Mainz Germany Tel: +49 (0) 6131 39 27 840 Fax:
+49 (0)6131 39 27 850 Email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
\Foitzik, Susanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >\Foitzik, Su-
sanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
LingnanU HongKong
ConservationBiol
https://lingnan.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/4/home/-
requisition/454?c=lingnan Assistant Professor /
Research Assistant Professor (3 vacancies) Environmen-
tal Science Post Ref.: 22/104
The University is seeking to hire 2 tenure-track Assistant
Professors and 1 full-time Research Assistant Professor
in the area of Environmental Science. The ideal can-
didates would enhance and build on existing strengths
(Conservation Biology, Aquatic and Terrestrial Ecol-
ogy), while diversifying the unit (e.g. new research and
teaching expertise, taxonomic coverage, and/or research
techniques)
The appointee will join the Science Unit (http://-
www.ln.edu.hk/scienceunit) in the School of Interdis-
ciplinary Studies and will be expected to develop
an externally-funded research program, publish high-
impact research, teach courses at the undergraduate
and postgraduate levels in a liberal arts setting, and
participate in academic and professional activities of the
Unit, School, and University.
General Requirements Applicants should have (i) a
PhD/Post-doctoral experience in a related eld; (ii) a
strong publication record in peer-reviewed, internationalApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 57
journals; (iii) a good track record in competitive grant
applications; (iv) the ability to contribute to the Sci-
ence Unit's teaching, outreach, and knowledge-transfer
eorts; and (v) the ability to contribute to the Univer-
sity's goal of producing socially signicant research that
informs sustainable development.
Appointment The conditions of appointment will be
competitive. The rank and remuneration will be com-
mensurate with qualications and experience. Fringe
benets include annual leave, medical and dental bene-
ts, mandatory provident fund, gratuity, and incoming
passage and baggage allowance for the eligible appointee.
For the post of Assistant Professor, appointment will
normally be made on an initial contract of three years;
subject to review and mutual agreement, it may nor-
mally lead to longer-term appointment with possibility
of consideration for substantiation.
jonfong@ln.edu.hk
MIT Massachusetts LabTech
PlantGenetics
The Des Marais Lab in the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering at MIT is looking to hire a
Research Technician to assist with studies on the mecha-
nisms of plant-environment interactions using molecular
and quantitative genetics. Current areas of interest
include life history evolution, interactions between car-
bon assimilation and growth during drought stress, and
genotype by environment interaction.
The research technician will assist with plant growth
experiments, basic molecular biology lab work includ-
ing DNA and RNA extractions and metabolic assays;
will handle general lab tasks such as preparing buers
and ordering; and perform other related duties as re-
quested. There will be opportunities to learn photosyn-
thetic analysis using a LiCor gas exchange system, plant
transgenics, cloning, and genomic analysis.
The Des Marais Lab < https://-
desmaraislab.scripts.mit.edu/lab/home/ >is located
in the Parsons Laboratory for Environmental Science
and Engineering. The Parsons Lab houses research
groups in life sciences, environmental chemistry,
hydrology, and uid mechanics. The group maintains
close collaborations with researchers in MIT's Biology
Department, Harvard's Organismic and Evolutionary
Biology Department, the Harvard Forest, and theArnold Arboretum in nearby Jamaica Plain, MA.
REQUIRED: a high school diploma or its equivalent;
excellent organizational, analytical, and oral and writ-
ten communication skills; self-motivation; ability to
multitask and work collaboratively with others. PRE-
FERRED: bench research experience; B.S. in biology or
related science eld; and experience with plant growth,
molecular biological techniques, and basic chemistry.
Job #20996-3 Some night and weekend work may be
required.
This is a one-year appointment, renewable based on
performance and the research needs of the lab.
Please apply online https://careers.peopleclick.com/-
careerscp/client mit/external/jobDetails/-
jobDetail.html?jobPostId=23603&localeCode=en-us
David L. Des Marais Walter Henry Gale (1929)
Career Development Professor Civil and Environmental
Engineering MIT https://desmaraislab.scripts.mit.edu/-
lab/home/ Dave Des Marais <dldesmar@mit.edu >
MortonArboretum Illinois ResAssist
TreeConservation
Greetings,
We are seeking a Tree Conservation Research Assistant
II at The Morton Arboretum in Lisle, IL. Does this
meet the denition to be posted on EvolDir? Details
are listed below.
The Morton Arboretum is a world-renowned nonprot
botanic garden dedicated to the study, growth, and
conservation of trees both in the Chicago region and
worldwide. We are seeking a highly motivated indi-
vidual to join the Global Tree Conservation Program
(GTCP) in our eort to prevent extinction of threatened
trees. TheTree Conservation Research Assistant level
II (RA II) willsupport the running of key elements of
the GTCP, with a focus on developing and applying
qualitative and quantitative methods for prioritizing
species where ex situ and in situ conservation actions
are most urgently needed, leading conservation-planning
and capacity building activities with stakeholders, and
contributing to conservation-focused eld research. The
Tree Conservation RA II will be supervised by the di-
rector of GTCP but will also have the opportunity to
collaborate with partners around the world, including
across the U.S. and in forest biodiversity hotspots, such
as Mesoamerica and SE Asia.58 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Position Summary:Work closely with the Director of
Global Tree Conservation to support the running of
key elements of the Global Tree Conservation Program
(GTCP) at The Morton Arboretum with focus on re-
search and conservation-planning activities with threat-
ened tree species.
Essential Functions:
Lead, coordinate, and write funding proposals to sup-
port GTCP projects.
Conduct species prioritization research, which includes
gathering and analyzing demographic, ecological and
threat data on priority tree species, preparing maps
using spatial analysis software, and preparing and up-
dating IUCN Red List threat assessments, conservation
gap analyses, IUCN Green List Status assessments, and
species action plans.
Perform assigned research activities, including interna-
tional eld work in biodiversity hotspots. Record and an-
alyze results in order to provide clear, well-documented
data for research projects.
Compile and summarize results and assist in prepar-
ing and editing reports, manuscripts and articles for
publication.
Present and communicate ndings to internal and exter-
nal professional and academic peers; and organize and
contribute to conservation activities, such as community
workshops and stakeholder meetings, both in the U.S.
and in priority countries for the GTCP.
Provide training and supervision to temporary employ-
ees, students, interns, and/or volunteers, including in-
ternational collaborators and fellows.
Coordinate with collaborators, manage communications
and project updates, and promote the work of the Ar-
boretum's conservation initiatives, including global oaks
and US trees.
Identify stakeholders, potential partners, resources, and
sites for tree conservation projects that ll identied
gaps.
Other duties as assigned.
Qualications:Bachelor's degree required, Master's de-
gree preferred in environmental science, conservation,
environmental policy, botany, biology, forestry, or a
related science. 3+ years of related research or work
experience required with a demonstrated knowledge of
research implementation. Ability to conduct statistical
and GIS/spatial analyses, ideally in R. Excellent orga-
nizational, communication, and independent working
skills required. Ability to conduct library research and
online data mining required. Prociency with MicrosoftOce and Google applications benecial. Basic botan-
ical knowledge is benecial. Knowledge of Spanish or
another secondary language benecial. Knowledge of
the IUCN Red List and international conservation poli-
cies/frameworks desirable. Must possess a valid driver's
license, which is subject to insurability and an annual
Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) report.
Success Factors:Self-motivated learner and ability to
solve problems and manage projects with minimal super-
vision. Familiar with academic and scientic literature
and research databases. Ability to read and understand
scientic literature and peer-reviewed articles. Ability
to use database, spreadsheet, and statistical/graphics
programs, and prociency with internet research. Strong
written and oral communication skills. Understanding
of national and international conservation policies. Will-
ingness to conduct research or conservation activities in
Mesoamerica or Southeast Asia and the ability to work
independently in remote settings with culturally-diverse
partners and local stakeholders. Interest in botanic gar-
dens and management of living plant collections. Ability
to embrace and operate in line with our employee core
values to be inclusive, take ownership, work together,
keep learning, and make the Arboretum exceptional.
Physical Demands and Work Environment:The physi-
cal demands and work environment characteristics de-
scribed here are representative of those
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NMBU Norway
BioinformaticsSeniorEngineer
Dear All,
Hi, I hope all is well. Faculty of Biosciences at the
Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU) invites
applications for a permanent position as senior engineer
within Computer Science and Bioinformatics. The main
task of this position is to support scientic computing
at Faculty of Biosciences.
About the position Faculty of Biosciences at the Nor-
wegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU) invites ap-
plications for a permanent position as senior engineerApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 59
within Computer Science and Bioinformatics. The main
task of this position is to support scientic computing
at Faculty of Biosciences.
The successful candidate will join the multidisciplinary
Genome Biology research group, which possess exper-
tise in genetics, evolutionary and comparative genomics,
bioinformatics and systems biology. This group includes
2 full-time professors, 2 associate professors, 22 post-
docs/researchers, 13 PhD students and 10 research tech-
nicians, teaming up within Centre for Integrative Genet-
ics (CIGENE; www.cigene.no). CIGENE has a strong
aqua- and agri- research prole, with key strengths in
application of 'omics' data to understand the genetic
architecture of complex traits.
The group has a track-record in high-impact publishing
and development of genomic resources for agricultural
and marine species. The CIGENE lab includes state-of-
the-art instrumentation for genotyping and sequencing
and produces large amounts of data for subsequent anal-
ysis.
The NMBU IT department is responsible for providing
the university's High-Performance Computing (HPC)
infrastructure - Orion. The successful candidate is ex-
pected to work closely with the relevant people internally
in the IT department and assist in planning, managing,
monitoring, documenting, and maintaining the system's
hardware and software.
For further information, please contact group leader
prof. Sigbjrn Lien (sigbjorn.lien@nmbu.no), phone
+47 91353715. https://www.jobbnorge.no//en/-
available-jobs/job/222724/senior-engineer-within-
computer-science-bioinformatics Best,
Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investiga-
tor, Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saito
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Norway CryptogamEvolution
At The Arctic University Museum of Norway (UM) a
position as Associate Professor is available within cryp-
togam (bryophytes, lichens, fungi) science. The position
is aliated to the newly established Norwegian Centre
for Arctic Ecosystem Genomics (ArcEcoGen).
ArcEcoGen research focus the research on the combined
eect of humans, climate, and biota on northern ecosys-tem dynamics in the past, present, and future using
environmental DNA (eDNA) techniques. A key goal
of ArcEcoGen is to build up a diverse, rigorous, and
internationally leading research group in ecosystem ge-
nomics. The Museum's large scientic collections used
for research and for generating DNA reference libraries
includes ~40 000 specimens of fungi, 23 000 lichens, 24
000 bryophytes, and 3500 algae. Our collections also
include sediment samples from arctic and alpine lakes
as well as DNA extracts from sediments and organisms.
We also have fully equipped laboratories and infrastruc-
ture for recovery and analyses of modern, ancient, and
eDNA, as well as eld equipment for sediment coring.
We are currently recruiting PhDs, Post Docs, and as-
sociate professors as a part of a recent Aurora Centre
funding award.
The position is expected to develop a research program
within eDNA of cryptogams with a focus on northern
ecosystems. Further, the position holder will be cura-
tor of our cryptogam collection and participate in out-
reach, administration, and some teaching. It is expected
that the position holder will participate in research
group collaboration and professional networks nation-
ally and internationally and will obtain external funding
from national and international funding agencies (e.g.,
RCN/EU).
You will conduct research and will be in charge of
maintaining and developing the Museum's scientic
collection of cryptogams. https://www.jobbnorge.no/-
en/available-jobs/job/221510/associate-professor-in-
cryptogam-studies Prof. Inger Greve Alsos The
Arctic University Museum of Norway UiT - The
Arctic University of Norway NO-9037 Troms >1
2
Norway Telephone: +47 77 62 07 96 Telefax: +47
77 64 51 05 Email: inger.g.alsos@uit.no http://-
en.uit.no/ansatte/inger.g.alsos http://ecogen.no/
https://www.iceagent.no/ http://svalbardora.no/
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8610-1085 Inger Greve
Alsos <inger.g.alsos@uit.no >Inger Greve Alsos
<inger.g.alsos@uit.no >
NSF USA ProgramDirectorInSys-
tematicsBiodiversity
Replacement post text:
The National Science Foundation (NSF) is searching for
a temporary program director (rotator) in the System-
atics and Biodiversity Science cluster in the Division60 EvolDir April 1, 2022
of Environmental Biology, with a exible start date.
Rotators typically join NSF on a short-term basis (1-3
years) and contribute to making proposal funding rec-
ommendations, inuencing NSF program trajectories,
interfacing with the scientic community, and relaying
trends about research community directions to NSF
programs. Rotators maintain ties to their current insti-
tution during their rotation, returning to their position
with new insights about the federal funding landscape
after their rotation.
If you or someone you know might be interested in
serving in this important role at NSF, we would like to
hear from you. You can read the job posting and ap-
ply athttps://beta.nsf.gov/careers/openings/bio/bio-18-
001 Qualied candidates from the full range of expertise
covered by the Systematics & Biodiversity Science Pro-
gram are encouraged to apply. The Rotator Program
strengthens NSF's ties with the research community
and provides the talent and resources that are critical
to meeting NSF's mission. Many potential candidates
may have ongoing NSF awards. NSF has mechanisms
in place that allow active labs to continue functioning
while you are serving the scientic community through
employment with NSF.
Rotators make essential contributions at NSF, and we
are looking to continue a strong tradition of having out-
standing scientists ll this role and serve on behalf of
the community. Serving as a rotator at NSF can expand
your scientic world view and enable you to engage in
a leadership position within the science community in a
whole new way.
More information about becoming a temporary program
director can be found here:https://beta.nsf.gov/careers/-
rotator-programs Please forward this announcement
to anyone you think might be interested in this oppor-
tunity. The application is straightforward. Review of
applications will start June 1, 2022 and continue until
the position is lled.
We encourage you to get in touch with these current
Program Directors to learn more about the position:
Christopher Balakrishnan,cbalakri@nsf.gov
Shannon Fehlberg,sfehlber@nsf.gov
Maureen Kearney,mkearney@nsf.gov
Dan Thornhill,dthornhi@nsf.gov
Christopher Balakrishnan, Ph.D. Program Director Divi-
sion of Environmental Biology Directorate of Biological
Sciences National Science Foundation T: 703.292.2331
Are you seeking more DEB info? Check out the blog!
Are you interested in being a reviewer? Fill out the
survey!\Balakrishnan, Christopher" <cbalakri@nsf.gov >
OxfordCollegeEmoryU 2
VisitingAssistProfessor
https://apply.interfolio.com/103070 Visiting Assistant
Professor - Biology
Located 36 miles east of Atlanta on Emory's original
campus in Oxford, Georgia, Oxford College invites ap-
plications for two visiting assistant professor positions in
Biology beginning August 2022, with possible renewal
up to three years.
The successful candidate will teach two lecture courses
and their accompanying laboratories each semester.
These courses will be part of the two-course introductory
biology sequence for majors, covering topics in cellular
and molecular biology, with a focus on molecular ge-
netics in the second course. Oxford's state-of-the-art
science facility, which opened in 2016, is designed to
promote student-faculty collaboration, scholarship, and
innovative teaching in STEM.
Qualications:
Required - A Ph.D. in biology or a sub-discipline, com-
pleted by May 2022
Preferred - Candidates with experience in inquiry-based
teaching and student-centered learning are particularly
encouraged to apply. Biology faculty use recommen-
dations of Vision and Change and PULSE as guiding
principles. Experience or training in molecular or cellu-
lar biology is a plus for both positions.
Application Instructions: Applicants are required to
submit a cover letter, CV, statement of teaching philos-
ophy, undergraduate and graduate transcripts (unocial
acceptable), and three letters of recommendation via
Interfolio (insert link here). The cover letter should
address the candidate's qualications for the position as
well as their interest in working at a liberal arts college
with rst and second year college students. Evaluation of
candidates will begin March, 21, 2022, and will continue
until the position is lled. Inquiries may be directed to
Dr. Sarah Fankhauser (sarah.fankhauser@emory.edu).
One of Emory University's four schools partnering in
undergraduate education, Oxford College provides 975
rst- and second-year students of high academic prole
an intensive liberal-arts program for the rst two years
of their Emory bachelor's degree. We are interested inApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 61
candidates with a commitment to working with a re-
markably diverse student body in an inclusive learning
community that values excellence in teaching and close
student-faculty interaction. Applications from women
and historically underrepresented minorities are particu-
larly welcome. For more information about Oxford Col-
lege and for a full listing of open positions, visit http://-
oxford.emory.edu/hiring.EEO/AA/Individuals with Dis-
abilities/Veteran Employer
Dr. Michael Martin Lecturer
Oxford College of Emory University
Department of Biology
110 Few Circle
Oxford, GA 30054
Science Building Rm 308 j770-784-8395
https://michaelmartinevobio.wordpress.com/ Pronouns
- he, him, his
\Martin, Michael" <michael.martin@emory.edu >
SGN Tubingen Tech
HumanEvolution
For over 200 years the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung (SGN) represents one of the most rel-
evant institutions investigating nature and its diver-
sity. Currently, scientists from more than 40 countries
across 11 locations in Germany conduct research in the
elds of biodiversity, earth system analysis and climate
change. The Senckenberg Centre for Human Evolution
and Palaeoenvironment (SHEP) is located in the lively
university town of T ubingen in the county of Baden-
W urttemberg, a town with a great deal of historical
air, oering manifold local recreation.
The Senckenberg Centre for Human Evolution and
Palaeoenvironment located in T ubingen invites applica-
tions for the position of a
Technician (m/f/d) for the technical management and
coordination of the laboratory
(full-time position)
Your tasks
Technical management and coordination of the lab3D Vi-
sualisation & 3D Printing: Technical operation of a 3D
visualisation laboratory.3D visualisation and modelling
of scientic objects using Nikon XT H-320 micro-CTand Artec surface scannersSupervision and guidance of
sta to work independently with hardware and software
of the laboratory, as well as participation in workshops
for studentsEquipment and IT support
Your prole
a successfully completed training as CT-technician or in
a related eld, or an academic degree and demonstrable
knowledge and experiencevery good knowledge of state-
of-the-art technology and current trends in visual data
analysisknowledge and experience in the use and main-
tenance of the lab's infrastructure and software (Nikon
Apps, Amira/Avizo, VG Studio, Geomagic, Artec Stu-
dio, Blender, open source programs)very good written
and spoken English, especially scientic Englishvery
good IT skills, especially MS Oce, and database skill-
steaching experience and pedagogical aptitude (desir-
able)you work independently and are results-oriented;
teamwork, communication skills, commitment and ini-
tiative round o your prole.
What is awaiting you?
an attractive and challenging job in a globally recog-
nized research institutionthe possibility to build and
extend your network with scientists at an international
levelexible working hours - annual special payment -
company pension scheme - a family-conscious personnel
policy (\audit berufundfamilie")
Place of Employment: T ubingen
Working hours: Full-time (100%; 39,5 hours/week)
Contract duration: Initially limited for a period of 24
months with the possibility to become permanent.
Salary: E 9 TV-L (collective agreement for public service
in the state of Baden-W urttemberg)
The Senckenberg Research Institutes support equal op-
portunity of men and women and therefore strongly
invite women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped
applicants will be given preference.
You would like to apply?
You are requested to send your application documents
(letter of motivation, CV and complete certicates and
credentials), mentioning the reference of this job an-
nouncement (ref.#10-22001) until April 4th, 2022 by
e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document) to recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de or apply directly on our homepage
via the online application form.
Scientic enquiries please feel free to contact Dr. Gabriel
Ferreira via e-mail, gabriel.ferreira@senckenberg.de.
Mit freundlichen Gr uen / Yours sincerely
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.62 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a  c 22 BGB)
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-21, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Team Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
- 1564 di-Biase, Maria
- 1204 Reitinger, Jasmin
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1445
Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Klement Tockner, Prof. Dr.
Angelika Brandt, Dr. Martin Mittelbach, Prof. Dr.
Andreas Mulch, Prof. Dr. Karsten Wesche;
Pr asidentin: Dr. h.c. Beate Heraeus;
Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt am
Main (Ordnungsamt)
Mitglied der Leibniz-Gemeinschaft
Vernetzen Sie sich mit uns: www.senckenberg.de/-
socialmedia Isabel Gajcevic
<recruiting@senckenberg.de >
StateUNewYork Oswego
EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Biological Sciences at the State Uni-
versity of New York at Oswego invites applications to
ll a full time Assistant Professor (10 month).
Posting Date:March 25, 2022
Review Date: Review of applications will begin imme-
diately and will continue until the position is lled.
Benet Information:The State University of New Yorkprovides an excellent benet package.
Date of Appointment:August 2022
Description of Responsibilities:The Assistant Professor
of Evolutionary Biology will teach courses in the Biology
and Zoology curricula in their area(s) of expertise, in-
cluding evolution. They may also contribute to general
education and Honor's Program oerings. Additional
responsibilities include research with undergraduates,
advising, and service.
SUNY Oswego works continuously to create an inclusive
environment which respects, embraces, and promotes
cultural safety, belonging, civil discourse, cultural hu-
mility, and other values and goals outlined in SUNY
Oswego's Strategic Diversity and Inclusion Plan.
Required Qualications:
The Assistant Professor will have a doctoral degree by
time of appointment. PhD with expertise in evolution,
with the ability to leverage the Great Lakes ecoregion
in their courses and research program; Experience with
techniques adaptable to undergraduate teaching and
research; A commitment to excellence in teaching, schol-
arship, and service as well as a commitment to providing
meaningful learning experiences to a diverse student
population through inclusive pedagogy.
Preferred Qualications:
Post-doctoral research experience, teaching experience,
and grantsmanship
At SUNY Oswego we value the diversity found in each
member of our campus community and strive to cre-
ate a community where that diversity is embraced and
enhanced. Recognizing the strength of diversity, our
mission is to foster an environment which respects, em-
braces and promotes cultural competence, civil discourse
and active engagement in developing an inclusive and
vibrant community of scholars who act as transforma-
tional agents of change and responsible citizens of the
world. For more information see SUNY Oswego's Strate-
gic Diversity and Inclusion Plan.
As a candidate seeking consideration you are asked to
submit a separate statement specically addressing how
your commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion has
been evidenced in your career experience and profes-
sional activity, and/or community service (volunteer
work, etc.), and/or professional development. (Please
see Application Instructions)
Additional Information:
If you have any questions about the position,
please e-mail: Maria Sagot, Search Chair at-
maria.sagot@oswego.eduApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 63
To Apply Submit:
Cover letter describing interest and qualications for po-
sition CV/Resume Research Statement Teaching State-
ment A statement addressing how your commitment
to the college's values of diversity, equity and inclusion
has been demonstrated in your teaching, professional
development, research, and/or service, and how these
values will be implemented in this position. Copy of un-
ocial (or copy of ocial) transcript for required degree
showing degree awarded and date conferred Contact
information for three professional references, who will
be contacted for a reference letter upon the applicant's
submission of all required application materials.
To apply use the following link:
https://oswego.interviewexchange.com/-
candapply.jsp?JOBID=144508#pageTop Candidates
are required to submit all application documents listed
under \To Apply Submit" be uploaded before you
can submit your application for consideration. Your
application will only be accessible for consideration
once all required documents have been submitted.
Maria Sagot <maria.sagot@oswego.edu >
StCloudU Minnesota PlantEvolution
Plant Biologist
Direct Link: https://stcloudstate.peopleadmin.com/-
postings/3010 Posting Details: The Department of
Biological Sciences at St. Cloud State University in-
vites applications for a tenure-track position in Plant
Biology at the rank of assistant or associate professor.
We seek a broadly-trained biologist, with an emphasis
on botanical organisms, who addresses questions with
innovative approaches to systematic, taxonomic, and/or
biogeographic issues in plant biology. Of interest are
individuals with expertise among the following elds
that address current issues in plant biology: systematics,
taxonomy, biogeography, invasive species identication
and predictive modeling, genomics, and morphology.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop
and maintain an active research program and teach un-
dergraduate and graduate-level courses in areas of plant
biology. The successful candidate will also be expected
to maintain our historically important and regionally
comprehensive herbarium and will have full access to
our onsite greenhouse for research and teaching. We
especially encourage applications from candidates inunderrepresented groups in the biological sciences.
The successful candidate is expected to establish and
maintain a professional goal to become an outstanding
teacher-scholar through the use of research-based, best-
practices pedagogy. They are expected to teach using
both in-person and alternative delivery methods such as
online and hybrid. They will regularly engage in ongoing
professional development and innovation opportunities
focused on pedagogical growth.
The successful candidate will share St. Cloud State's
commitment to our mission, and in particular, the value
we place in diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) as
outlined in SCSU's It's Time strategic framework. No-
tably, we uphold the advancement of diversity, equity,
and inclusion and engage in intentional actions to ad-
dress systemic inequities throughout the university and
surrounding environment. DEI values, practices, and
strategies are embedded into the fabric of our institution
and campus community, and they align with the priori-
ties expressed in the Minnesota State system's Equity
2030 initiative. SCSU expects all of its employees to
help advance these practices and to contribute to the
development of an anti-racist, inclusive community.
Job Description: The faculty member will be expected
to teach Bachelors and Masters-level courses such as
Plant Biology, Terrestrial and Aquatic Plant Taxonomy
and Identication, Wetland Plant Communities, Inva-
sive Plant Species Management, Introductory Biology,
and other courses dependent upon expertise. The fac-
ulty member will be expected to participate in a multi-
disciplinary research environment that contributes to
professional development and involves undergraduate
and graduate students at the Masters level. Advising
and committee participation are expected. The faculty
member will also maintain our herbarium.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. in Biology or related
discipline - Evidence of a research program involving
plant biology - Evidence of post-secondary teaching ex-
perience in biology - Evidence of demonstrated ability
to teach and work with persons from culturally diverse
backgrounds
Preferred Qualications: Demonstrated experience
teaching courses listed including laboratories
Post-doctoral experience - Evidence of working with
taxonomy, systematics, and/or biogeography of plants -
Evidence of grants and peer-reviewed publications - A
research program that includes technological or quanti-
tative components - A research program that includes
plant specimen-based work - Experience working and/or
collaborating with agencies likely to employ graduates
from our programs64 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Experience mentoring students including underrepre-
sented groups in STEM elds
About: Founded in 1869, St. Cloud State is an award-
winning regional public university and proud member
of the Minnesota State Universities & Colleges system.
The 100-acre campus is about an hour northwest of Min-
neapolis and St. Paul, along the oak-crowned west bank
of the Mississippi River. St. Cloud State students pre-
pare for life, work and citizenship by exploring the world
around them and making it better. St. Cloud State
employees value active and applied learning, commu-
nity engagement, sustainability, and global and cultural
understanding. These commitments complement more
than 200 majors, minors and pre-professional programs,
60 graduate programs and 250 student clubs and orga-
nizations. St. Cloud State began as a normal school in
1869 and became St. Cloud State Teachers College in
1921. Bachelor's degrees were rst oered in 1925. Mas-
ter's degrees debuted in 1957. In 1975, the institution
became St. Cloud State University. In recent years, the
University added applied doctoral programs in Higher
Education
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Trinidad PaidResearchInternships
FishEvol
*Paid Research Internships - Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology*
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-investigator, experimental study of
the evolution of species interactions in Trinidad, West
Indies. The research is led by Professors David Reznick
(University of California, Riverside), Joseph Travis
(Florida State University), Tim Coulson (University
of Oxford), and Ron Bassar (Williams College).||We
seek to integrate multiple biological elds for the study
of these interactions in experimental populations of gup-
pies and killish in Trinidad. Duties include assisting in
monthly censuses of guppy and killish populations in
montane streams and helping to execute experiments in
on-site articial streams. The monthly censuses include
long hours in the eld and laboratory.||There willalso be 12 days o each month when interns can pursue
an independent project.
Interns will be required to spend a minimum of 3-months
in Trinidad, with possibility of extension. There are
potential start dates in May 2022 and every month
thereafter until September 2024. We will pay a monthly
stipend, cover all|travel, living expenses, travel insur-
ance, and provide housing.
*Qualications:* We seek interns who are entertaining
the possibility of pursuing graduate studies in some
area of ecology and evolution and who wish to gain
some additional eld research experience before doing
so.||Research will take place in semi-remote areas
of Trinidad, sometimes under bad weather conditions.
Applicants must be able to live and work well with oth-
ers. Research will involve carrying heavy packs over
slippery and steep terrain. Applicants must be in good
physical condition and be able to meet the demands of
eld research under these conditions. Ability to drive
a standard transmission vehicle is desirable but not
required. Applicants with rst-aid/rst responder train-
ing, skills in automobile maintenance, and construction
skills are highly desirable. Please address these skills
when applying.
Please see our website
<www.theguppyproject.weebly.com < http://-
www.theguppyproject.weebly.com > > for more
information on the project and access to reprints.Be
sure to check out our video menu, which includes a
\guppy censuses" as submenu VII.It details the main
tasks associated with the internship.
Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names
and e-mail addresses of three or more professional refer-
ences to David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu). At least two
of the references should be academics.
Ron Bassar <rdb4@williams.edu >
UAberdeen FieldWork RangeShifts
Paid summer entomological eld work in Norway and
Finland The Lancaster Lab within the University of Ab-
erdeen School of Biological Sciences (Aberdeen UK) is
looking for a short-term research technician (3 months)
to join our team to investigate ecological and evolution-
ary processes associated with range shifts caused by
climate change. As climates are warming, many species,
and particularly insects, are moving to higher latitudesApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 65
that have become newly suitable. To better understand
this process, our team will be travelling to Norway and
Finland in summer 2022 to conduct latitudinal sampling
transects of the rapidly-range expanding insect species,
the blue-tailed damsely (Ischnura elegans). Fieldwork
will be conducted by a postdoctoral research associate
and 1-2 research technicians (this post). The job re-
quires eld sampling (capturing damselies by net), and
taking eld data and samples to a high quality and
precision. Good identication skills are a plus, as is
the ability to occasionally work long hours in the eld
under various weather conditions. Previous eldwork
experience a plus. Valid, clean drivers license required.
Candidate must be a UK resident and not requiring a
visa for UK employment.
Salary will be  >1
218,852 -  >1
219,623with placement ac-
cording to qualications and experience; travel expenses
will further be covered.
We aim to have someone in post by May 20, 2022, and
applications will be accepted until at least April 25,
2022.
Please send informal enquiries or CV and cover letter
to Lesley Lancaster, e-mail:lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk
Dr. Lesley Lancaster School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Aberdeen Aberdeen, AB24 2TZ United King-
dom (+44) 01224274551
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered
in Scotland, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar
Dheathain na charthannas cl >1
2raichte ann an Alba,
 >1
2ir. SC013683.
\Lancaster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >\Lan-
caster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >
UArizona TeachingInsectEvolution
The Department of Entomology invites outstanding can-
didates to apply for our position as Assistant Professor
of Practice. This non-tenure eligible faculty position is
for a three-year appointment (contingent upon a sat-
isfactory performance review at the end of each year
and the availability of funds). The position is based on
Instruction (90%) and Service (10%) with a total Full
Time Equivalency (FTE) of 0.833.
https://arizona.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/4/home/-
requisition/9166?c=3Darizona The successful candidate
will: - Teach 15 credits (e.g., 5 courses of 3 credits percourse) per calendar year. The courses will be primarily
or entirely undergraduate courses taught in person and
online, such as: ENTO 160 Busy Bees and Fancy Fleas:
How Insects Shaped Human History, ENTO 170 Secrets
of Success: How Insects Conquered Earth!, and two
new courses on edible insects. (Teaching duties may
be adjusted to meet the needs of the Department and
College.) - Mentor undergraduate students as needed,
and serve on appropriate Departmental, College and
University committees as assigned.
Required/Minimum Qualications: - Doctoral Degree
(PhD) in Entomology, Biology, or a related eld com-
pleted by May 1st, 2022. - Experience teaching under-
graduate courses. - Experience with commitment to
diversity and inclusion, established in the narrative of
the Diversity and Inclusion Statement.
Documents needed to apply: - Cover letter - Curriculum
Vitae (CV) - Teaching Statement (limit to 2 pages) -
Diversity and Inclusion Statement (limit to 1 page) -
Names of 3 references
Apply at: https://arizona.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/-
4/home/requisition/9166?c=3Darizona For questions
or more information about this position, please contact
Luciano Matzkin, lmatzkin@arizona.edu
For information about our great department visit:
https://cals.arizona.edu/ento/ At the University of Ari-
zona, we value our inclusive climate because we know
that diversity in experiences and perspectives is vital
to advancing innovation, critical thinking, solving com-
plex problems, and creating an inclusive academic com-
munity. As an Hispanic-serving institution, we trans-
late these values into action by seeking individuals who
have experience and expertise working with diverse stu-
dents, colleagues, and constituencies. Because we seek
a workforce with a wide range of perspectives and expe-
riences, we provide equal employment opportunities to
applicants and employees without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran
status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or genetic
information. As an Employer of National Service, we
also welcome alumni of AmeriCorps, Peace Corps, and
other national service programs and others who will help
us advance our Inclusive Excellence initiative aimed at
creating a university that values student, sta and fac-
ulty engagement in addressing issues of diversity and
inclusiveness.
Dr. Luciano M. Matzkin Associate Professor Univer-
sity of Arizona Department of Entomology BIO5 In-
stitute Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 520-621-1955 Marley 641F www.matzkinlab.org
lmatzkin@arizona.edu66 EvolDir April 1, 2022
UCalifornia Berkeley
OrnithologyCurator
Opening for Sta Curator of Ornithology, Museum of
Vertebrate Zoology
The Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, UC Berkeley, is
searching for a full-time Sta Curator of Ornithol-
ogy. This is a career position with renewal every three
years.The application deadline is April 21, 2022.
See the job position posted on the UC Berkeley website.
Here is the link:
https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03340 Carol
Spencer <atrox@berkeley.edu >
UColorado Denver
TeachingEvolution
https://universityofcolorado.dejobs.org/-
denver-co/senior-instructor/-
360136C5D03A484C854D1926B17BB784/job/
DESCRIPTION
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO DENVER - COL-
LEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCES
DEPARTMENT OF INTEGRATIVE BIOLOGY
SENIOR INSTRUCTOR
POSITION #00704939- REQUISITION #25108
* Applications are accepted electronically ONLY at
www.cu.edu/cu-careers The University of Colorado
has a requirement for COVID-19 vaccinations and full
completion thereof by 9/1/21 or upon start date. Infor-
mation regarding this requirement, and exemptions can
be found at:
Anschutz: https://www.ucdenver.edu/docs/-
librariesprovider284/default-document-library/-
3000-general-admission/3012|covid-19-vaccination-
requirement-and-compliance.pdf?sfvrsn=4e9df3ba 2
Denver: https://www.ucdenver.edu/coronavirus
Exemptions vary by campus location/department.
Campus/Unit-Specic Exemptions:Anschutz Campus - Accommodations may be granted
for medical or religious reasons.
Denver Campus - Exemptions are allowed for medical,
religious, or personal reasons.
Consolidated/Central Services Administration - Accom-
modations may be granted for medical or religious rea-
sons.
The University of Colorado Denver seeks individuals
with demonstrated commitment to creating an inclusive
learning and working environment. We value the ability
to engage eectively with students, faculty and sta of
diverse backgrounds.
THE DEPARTMENT OF INTEGRATIVE BIOLOGY
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO DENVER
SEEKS TO HIRE A FULL-TIME FACULTY MEM-
BER AT THE RANK OF SENIOR INSTRUCTOR.The
department seeks an individual who has experience with
research-based pedagogies and inclusive teaching prac-
tices. The position is a 9-month appointment with 90%
teaching and 10% service. Depending on the candidate's
expertise and interests, teaching duties could include
primarily lecture courses, a mix of teaching and labo-
ratory supervision, or primarily laboratory supervision.
Teaching duties could include rst-year Introductory
Biology, Cell Biology, Genetics, Ecology, Evolution or
Physiology, as well as other upper division courses in
the hire's area of speciality. We encourage scientists
working in any area of Biology to apply.
Competitive applicants will contribute to the CU Den-
ver and the Department of Integrative Biology mission
to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion in STEM
education. Our student body of 15,000 is diverse: for
our undergraduates, 49% are rst-generation students,
52% percent are women, 42% are students of color. CU
Denver qualies for Hispanic Serving (HSI) status. CU
Denver is also listed on G.I. Jobs \Military Friendly
Schools" list. CU Denver is a member of The National
Science Foundation's Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority
Participation, and a recipient of a Howard Hughes Med-
ical Institute Inclusive Excellence Grant for enhancing
equity in STEM education. Diversity and inclusion are
embedded in all aspects of campus life described further
at: http://www.ucdenver.edu/about/departments/odi/-
diversitymatters . We are actively seeking faculty whose
teaching and service demonstrate their commitment to
inclusion and equity of under-represented individuals
in STEM. Applicants should be dedicated to inclusive
teaching practices, demonstrated by knowledge, experi-
ence, and plans to continue to grow in this area.
ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY:
The University of Colorado Denver is the state's premierApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 67
public urban research university and equity-serving in-
stitution. Globally connected and locally invested, CU
Denver partners with future-focused learners and com-
munities to design accessible, relevant, transformative
educational experiences for every stage of life and career.
Across eight schools and colleges in the heart of down-
town Denver, our leading faculty inspires and works
alongside students to solve complex challenges through
boundary-breaking innovation and impactful research
and creative work. As part of the state's largest univer-
sity system, CU Denver is a major contributor to the
Colorado economy, with 2,000 employees and annual
economic impact of more than $800 million. For more
information, visit www.ucdenver.edu ABOUT THE
DEPARTMENT:
The Department supports 2,000 undergraduate students
and the Biology Major is the largest undergraduate pro-
gram in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The
Department also oers both MS and PhD degrees with
multi-disciplinary faculty participation from across the
CU Denver
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UConnecticut Tech
SticklebackStockCenter
The Milligan-McClellan and Bolnick Labs at the Uni-
versity of Connecticut are hiring a manager for the
newly created Stickleback Stock Center with the of-
cial title of Research Assistant 2 or 3, depending
on experience. The Milligan-McClellan Lab (https://-
drkatlab.wordpress.com/about/) is in the Department of
Molecular and Cell Biology. The Bolnick Lab (https://-
bolnicklab.wordpress.com) is in the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology.
Opportunities:
* Gain experience in sh husbandry * Develop laboratory
and colony management skills * Learn sterile technique
* Learn laboratory genetic methods such as gene editing
of embryos * Conduct eld-sampling expeditions for sh,
microbes, and parasites * Opportunities to do outreach
in STEM throughout the year * Contribute to datacollection, analyses, and writing, with the possibility of
authorship on lab publications
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Stock Center
manager's core duties include:
* Help design and install additional aquarium facility
systems * Rear and breed multiple populations of stick-
leback representing a sample of the biological diversity
of stickleback * Supervise sh health * Manage supplies
and ordering for the Stock Center * Help create and
manage a website and inventory system to allow users at
research institutions to place orders for eggs, sperm, em-
bryos, sh, microbes, cell lines, or gene-edited embryos
* Complete orders from users (packing, shipping, etc.),
including breeding sh, microinjection of embryos, etc. *
Train new sta as needed * Update existing, create, and
maintain Animal Use and Care Protocols * Build a set
of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) documents on
Protocols.io for various aspects of stickleback husbandry
to facilitate standardized care and help new stickleback
researchers learn how to work with this species * Travel
to conferences to promote the Stock Center's services
and recruit new researchers and users * Maintain and
expand stickleback microbe and parasite stocks and aid
in submitting these to national biobanks
Additional optional duties may include (as time per-
mits):
* Design and implement experiments to optimize stick-
leback husbandry procedures (e.g., cryogenic preserva-
tion, gene editing, microbiome manipulations, parasite
infections, etc.) * Fieldwork to obtain new stocks *
Help colleagues at UConn (undergraduates, graduate
students, postdocs) with stickleback experiments, po-
tentially including microbiome, immunology, parasite
infection, genetic mapping, etc.
See the Milligan-McClellan (https://-
drkatlab.wordpress.com/about/) and Bolnick (https:/-
/bolnicklab.wordpress.com) websites for more details
on ongoing research and descriptions of people. All
of these projects are united around their focus on a
powerful model organism{the threespine stickleback
sh.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
* Bachelor's degree in Biology or a closely related disci-
pline (e.g, Animal Science, Pathology) * Two to three
years of post-degree experience or a M.S. degree and
from no experience to one year of post-degree experi-
ence for a Research Assistant 2. * Four to ve years of
post-degree experience or a M.S. degree and two to four
years of post-degree experience for a Research Assistant
3 * Enthusiasm to learn new techniques * Evidence of
strong organizational skills including detailed oriented68 EvolDir April 1, 2022
record keeping * Demonstrated ability to work well with
others
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
* Substantive experience with sh care and husbandry *
Experience with research in organismal biology or mi-
crobiology * Experience with eldwork collecting sh or
other vertebrates for research
APPOINTMENT TERMS This is a full-time, (40-hour
per week), in-person, 12-month position (annually re-
newable). Renewal will be contingent upon performance
and the availability of funding.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT Em-
ployment at the University of Connecticut is contin-
gent upon the successful candidate's compliance with
the University's Mandatory Workforce COVID-19 Vac-
cination Policy <https://policy.uconn.edu/2021/08/-
18/mandatory-workforce-covid-19-vaccination/ >. This
Policy states that all workforce members are required
to have or obtain a Covid-19 vaccination as a term and
condition of employment at UConn, unless an exemp-
tion or deferral has been approved. Employment of the
successful candidate is contingent upon the successful
completion
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia ResTech
ZebrashEvolution
FACULTY OF SCIENCE SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL
SCIENCES
Research Technician REF: TC806 Fixed-Term
22,847 to 26,341 per annum, pro-rata
We are looking for a research technician to join our
expanding zebrash facility at the School of Biological
Sciences (BIO) at the University of East Anglia. The
successful candidate will be in charge of managing the
facility and of the maintenance and breeding of our ze-
brash, as well as assisting with the diverse research
projects running in the lab.
The successful candidate will be a full member of the
PI's group (see our lab homepage for more information:https://simoneimmler.com/) and is expected to actively
participate in group activities including lab meetings
and journal clubs. The School of Biological Sciences at
the UEA oers a vibrating research environment with a
large number of research groups working on questions
related to this project.
We are seeking an applicant with a degree in Biology
in the widest sense who has experience in lab manag-
ing. Along with excellent interpersonal skills and the
ability to use initiative, and apply creativity, to solve
problems which are encountered in the daily routines,
you will need to full all the essential criteria of the job
description.
This post is available from 1 September 2022 on a xed-
term basis until 31 August 2023, with the possibility of
extension for the duration of the ERC CoG. The post is
full-time, but part-time working hours (minimum 0.5fte)
will be considered.
Closing Date: Monday 11 April 2022
To apply for this vacancy, please follow the online instruc-
tions at: https://myview.uea.ac.uk/webrecruitment/
The University is committed to diversifying its workforce.
As examples, we already hold an Athena SWAN Silver
Institutional Award in recognition of our advancement
towards gender equality. We also have a Vice-Chancellor
led Taskforce on Tackling Racism and a Race Equality
Charter Working Group which support our work on race
equality. Our aim is to submit to the Race Equality
Charter in 2024.
Kind regards,
Olivia Wallace Resourcing Adviser Resourcing, Reward
and Performance, People and Culture Division Univer-
sity of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park, Norwich
NR4 7TJ
||
Visit|UEA Media Room|for breaking news and ex-
pert comment. | Gold (Teaching Excellence Frame-
work 2017-2021) World Top 200|(Times Higher Edu-
cation World University Rankings 2020) UK Top 25|
(The Times/Sunday Times 2020 and Complete Univer-
sity Guide 2020) World Top 50 for research citations|
(Times Higher Education World University Rankings
2020) Athena SWAN Silver Award holder in recognition
of advancement of gender equality for all (Advance HE
2019)
| ||||| |
UEA Resourcing Team <sta.recruitment@uea.ac.uk >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 69
UFreiburg
MolecularEvolutionaryBiology
The Faculty of Biology at the University of Freiburg
(Germany) invites applications for
*an Assistant Professorship (Akad. Rat*R atin auf Zeit)
in the eld of Molecular Evolutionary Biology*
The Institute of Biology I is seeking highly motivated
candidates with experience and research interests in the
area of evolutionary biology.
The candidate should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology and molecular genetics/genomics. The
applicant should be familiar with genomic analyses and
molecular genetic techniques. Ideally, the candidate
should work on social evolution in its broadest sense (in-
cluding, social microbes, mutualism, parasitism, selsh
genetic elements..).
The position is part of the group led by Prof. Dr. Judith
Korb 'From Gene to Ecosystem' at the department of
Evolutionary Biology and Animal Ecology.
The University of Freiburg is a top research location
in Germany. Freiburg is a university town, located in
one of the warmest regions of Germany, next to the
black forest and close to Alsace and Switzerland. The
vibrant town oers a living environment surrounded by
beautiful scenery, plenty of entertainment and cultural
activities.
Candidates for the position must hold a PhD and should
establish externally funded projects, supervise students,
contribute to the teaching mission of the department
(4 hours/week) and will have the opportunity to obtain
the 'Habilitation' (a German qualication supportive
in applications for professorships). The civil servant
requirements must be fullled.
Funding of this position is initially secured for three
years and can be extended for another three years.
Interested candidates should send an application (as a
single e-mail attachment) containing a complete CV,
reprints (pdf-les) of three representative papers and a
concise description of current and future research con-
cepts. Applicants should also arrange for two letters of
reference to be submitted on their behalf to the address
below.
The salary will be determined in accordance with A13.We are particularly pleased to receive applications from
women for the position advertised here.
Application
Please send your application in English including sup-
porting documents mentioned above citing the reference
number 00002136, by 15.04.2022 at the latest. Please
send your application to the following address in written
or electronic form:
Institut Bio I Prof. Dr. Judith Korb Hauptstr.1
79104 Freiburg Germany Or: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-
freiburg.de
For further information, please contact Frau Prof. Dr.
Judith Korb on the phone number *49 761 203-2546 or
E-mail judith.korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de
General and legal remarks Full-time positions may gen-
erally be split up into two or more part-time positions,
provided that there are no formal or legal barriers. Can-
didates are selected in accordance with the provisions of
the AGG (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz - Ger-
man General Equal Treatment Act). Applicants with
disabilities (Schwerbehinderte Menschen) will be given
preferential consideration in case of equal qualication.
The department oering the position is liable for the
content of this job posting. Textual errors do not con-
stitute a basis for any claims or rights. The relevant
human resources department has sole responsibility for
all legal transactions made within the context of the se-
lection and hiring process. Please note that breaches in
privacy and unauthorized access by third parties cannot
be excluded in communication by unencrypted email.
Volker Nehring <volker.nehring@biologie.uni-
freiburg.de >
UHull UK 5 EvolutionAI
5 Permanent (tenured) positions, both lecturers and
teaching fellows, at the University of Hull (UK) in AI /
Data Sciences that explicitly includes Biosciences.
The launch of the new Centre of Excellence in Data
Science, Articial Intelligence, and Modelling (DAIM)
at the University of Hull (UK) seeks applications for
both Teaching Fellows and Lecturers within the Centre.
The post holders will be expected to undertake research
and/or knowledge exchange activities within the elds
of Data Science, Modelling, and/or AI in areas including
but not limited to modelling & numerical analysis, high70 EvolDir April 1, 2022
performance computing, data science, machine learning,
and computer science and vizualization. We are looking
for a good degree, and a PhD or equivalent, as well as
a demonstrable background through teaching, research,
or career experience in at last one aspect of: Data Sci-
ence, AI, or Python Programming. Preference will be
given to candidates who are able to provide teaching
support and research or knowledge exchange expertise
across a number of subject areas relevant to DAIM and
who complement and enhance the overall disciplinary
balance within DAIM.
Link for Lecturer positions: https://jobs.hull.ac.uk/-
Vacancy.aspx?ref=FS0613 Link for Teaching Fellow
positions: https://jobs.hull.ac.uk/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
FS0612 To discuss this role informally, please contact
Dr. Kevin Pimbblet (Director) at k.pimbblet@hull.ac.uk
Kevin A Pimbblet <K.Pimbblet@hull.ac.uk >
UMinnesota TeachingEvolution
Link to Job posting:|https://hr.myu.umn.edu/jobs/-
ext/346439 About the Job The Department of Fish-
eries, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology in the College
of Food, Agriculture and Natural Resources (CFANS)
at the University of Minnesota invites applicants for a
9-month, non-tenure track Teaching Assistant Professor
position (job code 9403T). We seek applicants with a
passion for teaching, particularly eld courses and out-
door experiences. The position is a full-time, annually
renewable appointment with an initial three-year con-
tract. Subsequent annual renewals are contingent on
department funding. It is intended to be a long-term
appointment and includes a promotion path with steps
of Teaching Associate Professor and Teaching Profes-
sor. Members of systematically excluded groups are
encouraged to apply.
Position Description
Responsibilities include:
Teaching two or three courses per semester including a
wide variety of circumstances including, but not limited
to: - Team teaching - Outdoor classes that integrate
active learning - Courses with enrollment ranging from
25 to 150 students - In person and online courses
The primary responsibilities are teaching the depart-
ment's core eld courses which teach organismal and
ecosystem eld sampling methods.Additional teaching responsibilities include courses as
assigned by the department head.
Service to the teaching mission of the Department of
Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology such as:
- Participation in Department and College curriculum
development - Sharing pedagogy-related techniques with
colleagues - Serving as an academic mentor to under-
graduate students in the department major - Service on
department, college, or university committees
ACADEMIC RANK This is a non-tenure track, teach-
ing scholar position.||The initial appointment will
be at the rank of assistant professor with potential for
advancement.
Salary and Benets: Salary is competitive and com-
mensurate with experience and qualications. We an-
ticipate a hiring salary range between $70,000 - 80,000
dependent upon education, skills, collegiate equity, and
previous experience. This is a 9-month appointment
with the opportunity to obtain summer salary from re-
search and/or educational grants up to 2.75 months.
Benets include employee health, dental, and faculty
life/disability insurance, social security, faculty retire-
ment and opportunities for professional development,
including sabbatical and semester leave opportunities.
Benets are described at http://www1.umn.edu/ohr/-
benets/index.html . The University of Minnesota bene-
ts package includes: - Competitive wages, paid holidays.
- Low cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans. - Health
care and dependent daycare exible spending accounts.
- Excellent retirement plans with generous employer
contribution and immediate vesting. - Employer paid
disability and life insurance. - Wellbeing program with
reduced insurance premiums. - Tuition reimbursement
opportunities covering 75% of eligible tuition. - Oppor-
tunities for sabbaticals and other professional leaves. -
Opportunities for growth and promotion. - Employee
Assistance Program. Qualications Minimum Qualica-
tions: - PhD or equivalent degree in organismal biology,
or a related eld at the time the appointment begins
- Experience with college/university teaching of eld
courses in sheries, wildlife, conservation, ecology or
similar courses - Demonstrated ability to teach a variety
of organismal and ecosystem based eld techniques -
Demonstrated commitment to working with people with
diverse identities and underrepresented communities
Preferred Qualications: - Evidence of eective teach-
ing in both the classroom and the eld - Experience
working in and/or knowledge of the elds of sheries,
wildlife, ecology, or conservation - Experience working
with diverse teams and students from dierent cultures
and backgrounds - Experience teaching eld work in
both terrestrial and aquatic systems - DemonstratedApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 71
experience or commitment to instruction programs that
supports diverse learners and builds inclusive classroom
environments - Experience team teaching courses - Com-
fortable teaching classes in a variety of environments,
active learning, eld settings, and team teaching (includ-
ing occasional adverse weather conditions) - Capable
of building collegial interactions with partners from di-
verse communities and cultures to connect students to
professional experiences - Ability to use and implement
online or hybrid learning technologies and course deliv-
ery software to teach in multiple learning modalities
Physical Requirements: - This position requires frequent
hiking o trail, frequent carrying equipment weighing up
to 30 pounds, and work in occasional adverse weather
conditions.
About the Department
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMontreal AnimalGenommics
The Department of Biological Sciences of the Univer-
sit e de Montr eal is seeking outstanding candidates for a
Canada Excellence Research Chair (CERC) in animal
(non human) genomics.
Eligibility criteria: - Candidates may come from
academia, government or industry. - Candidates must be
full professors or associate professors, who will become
full professors in the year or within 2 years following
the nomination; - The Program does not impose any
restrictions on applicants with regard to nationality or
country of residence; - Researchers who hold a full-time
position at a Canadian institution may be nominated; if
so, justify it (explain the real advantages for the country
of transferring this person from one Canadian institution
to another);
The program oers two types of non-renewable re-
search chairs: - Chairs at $8M, duration 8 years (up to
$1M/year) or - Chairs at $4M, duration 8 years (up to
$500K/year);
If you are interested in applying, please contact So-
phie Breton before March 25 (Department of Biological
Sciences, UdeM): s.breton@umontreal.caLe D epartement de Sciences Biologiques de l'Universit e
de Montr eal recherche des candidats en g enomique an-
imale (non humain), r epondant aux crit eres pour une
Chaire d'excellence en recherche du Canada
Crit eres d'admissibilit e:
Les candidates et candidats peuvent ^ etre issus du milieu
universitaire, gouvernemental ou industriel.
Les candidats doivent ^ etre des professeures ou pro-
fesseurs titulaires ou des professeures ou professeurs
agr eg es, qui deviendront titulaires dans l'ann ee ou dans
les 2 ann ees suivant la mise en candidature;
Les candidates et candidats provenant d'un milieu autre
que le milieu de l'enseignement postsecondaire, doivent
poss eder les qualications n ecessaires pour pouvoir ^ etre
nomm es  a des postes similaires;
Le Programme n'impose aucune restriction aux candi-
dates et candidats, en ce qui concerne la nationalit e ou
le pays de r esidence;
Les chercheures et chercheurs qui occupent un poste  a
temps plein dans un  etablissement canadien peuvent
^ etre nomm es; si tel est le cas, le justier (expliquer les
avantages r eels pour le pays de transf erer cette personne
d'un  etablissement canadien  a un autre);
Le programme propose deux types de chaires de
recherche non renouvelables :
Chaires  a 8M $, dur ee 8 ans (jusqu' a 1M $/ann ee)
ou Chaires  a 4M $, dur ee 8 ans (jusqu' a 500K
$/ann ee); Vous avez un int er^ et  a d eposer votre can-
didature, veuillez contacter Sophie Breton avant le 25
mars (D epartement de Sciences Biologiques, UdeM):
s.breton@umontreal.ca
Sophie Breton Professeure agr eg ee
Chaire de Recherche du Canada en Biologie ~Avolutive
Mitochondriale // Canada Research Chair in Evolution-
ary Mitochondrial Biology
D epartement de Sciences Biologiques Universit e de
Montr eal Pavillon des Sciences, Campus MIL C.P. 6128,
succ. Centre-Ville Montr eal, QC, H3C 3J7 Tel. 514-343-
6111 #7460
Sophie Breton <s.breton@umontreal.ca >72 EvolDir April 1, 2022
USFWS NationalHatcheryOpera-
tionsCoordinator
All enquiries to Nathan Wilke <nathan wilke@fws.gov >
Hello folks,
We've got an awesome position open, and I'd appreciate
it if you can circulate it to folks in the captive rearing
and conservation.
National Hatchery Operations Coordinator (GS12/13):
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
642980900 Location: Negotiable
Hiring Authority: STEM Direct Hire Authority
Open: March 17-31, 2022, or up to 100 applicants ...
whichever comes rst.
Description: Join the USFWS headquarters team to
shape the future of captive rearing in conservation.
We're looking for a skilled communicator and project
manager with a strong background in aquaculture and
science to help coordinate eorts, vision, and priorities
for an 84-facility captive rearing program producing
upwards of 150 million individuals spread across 80-100
species annually. We value innovation, team commit-
ment, and passion for conservation. Captive rearing
is critical in maintaining biodiversity today and into
the future, and we look to be a global leader in its
responsible and eective application.
Please see the announcement for more details.
Thanks,
Nate
Nathan Wilke (he/him/his) Chief, Branch of Hatchery
Operations and Applied Science https://www.fws.gov/-
sheries/ Celebrate Fish 150!
US Fish and Wildlife Service Headquarters 5275 Lees-
burg Pike Falls Church, VA 22041 (c) 703.350.9076 (o)
703.358.2463
\Rodriguez-Clark, Kathryn M." <Rodriguez-
ClarkKM@si.edu >UZurich LabManager
PlantMicrobeInteractions
Lab manager, Institute of Evolutionary Biology and
Environmental, Studies, University of Z >1
2rich
The research group of Prof. Anna-Liisa Laine is seeking
a Laboratory Manager for a one year position with the
possibility of becoming permanent. Research in the
group is focused on understanding the ecology and evo-
lution of plant-microbe interactions in both wild and
managed systems. The research combines ecological
eld surveys and experiments with molecular biology
and mathematical modeling. Our research sites are lo-
cated in the  >1
2land archipelago of Finland, in the Swiss
Alps and the Irchel campus of University of Zurich.
We are looking for a highly motivated and organized
individual to coordinate our research in experimental
settings as well as in the laboratory, and to handle the
nancial and administrative tasks of our group. The
position is ideal for someone with a strong interest in
research and experience of working in a University en-
vironment and laboratory setting. The successful can-
didate should have a background in molecular biology
or eld ecology, and may hold a MSc or PhD degree
in Biology (ecology, evolutionary biology, plant biology,
microbiology, molecular biology or similar).
The regular tasks include coordinating and overseeing
laboratory, eld & greenhouse experiments with plants
and their microbes. Experience in standard laboratory
protocols in molecular biology (e.g. PCR, qPCR, DNA
and RNA extraction) is required, as well as ability to
manage the laboratory (keeping samples and sample
databases organized, organization of laboratory facili-
ties, maintenance of equipment, management of ordering
of laboratory supplies, training of new lab members).
Additionally, the position involves the nancial and ad-
ministrative management of the group. This includes
most purchasing, nancial reporting to local and in-
ternational stakeholders, supporting incoming group
members, group and project budgeting.
We are looking for someone who is highly motivated,
communicative, interested to learn new techniques, or-
ganized, and capable of working both independently and
in a team. The working language in the laboratory is
English, and good German skills are also required.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 73
ings, with a highly international population, and many
educational and recreational opportunities. To be con-
sidered, please send a single (!) PDF le merged from
the following parts: letter of motivation (max 1 page),
CV, and three references to viviana.loaiza@ieu.uzh.ch.
Please include the word LAINELAB22 in the subject
line. The application deadline is March 31st, 2022. The
position is available in May 2022, with some exibility
in the starting date.
For more information on the group, please visit
https://lainelab.net/. For questions on the position,
please contact Prof. Dr. Anna-Liisa Laine, anna-
liisa.laine@ieu.uzh.ch
Anna-Liisa Laine <anna-liisa.laine@ieu.uzh.ch >
WageningenU EvolutionSystematics
Assistant Professor (Tenure-Track): Evolution and Sys-
tematics, Wageningen University This vacancy will be
listed up to and including Thursday, March 31st, 2022.
https://www.wur.nl/en/vacancy/Tenure-track-
position-Evolution-and-Systematics.htm We are
looking for Are you an independent, creative and
enthusiastic researcher using phylogenetics, phyloge-
nomics and/or genomics to address questions about
arthropod biodiversity and evolution? Do you enjoy
generating high-level fundamental science? Are you
an engaged educator with experience in teaching
arthropod systematics, ecology and/or evolution? Are
you collaborative and well organized? Would you like to
work in a young, diverse and supportive group? Then
this may be the right position for you.
The mission of the Biosystematics group at Wageningen
University & Research is to answer fundamental ques-
tions about biological diversity and its origins, especially
in relation to (crop) plants and interacting organisms
like insects, nematodes, bacteria and fungi.
- You have an excellent scientic track record in phylo-
genetics, phylogenomics, evolution and/or genomics. -
Your research focusses on arthropod/insect species and
complement the current expertise in the group. - You
are an organized and enthusiastic teacher, experienced
in lecturing and supervision of BSc and MSc students,
willing to contribute to high-quality education in topics
ranging from biodiversity, systematics, to (molecular)
biology. - Finally, you are a collaborative team mem-
ber, contributing to the organization of our group, theuniversity and the scientic community at large.
You will spend approximately 40% of your time on
research, 40% on education, and 20% on organization.
In this challenging career trajectory: - you acquire, lead
and implement innovative and creative(inter-) national
research projects in phylogenetics, phylogenomics, evolu-
tion and/or genomics; - you collaborate with colleagues
and supervise PhD students, BSc and MSc theses and
you develop and teach courses; - you contribute to the
further development of the Biosystematics Group.
Tenure Track is a career path for scientists in education
and research. We seek to attract scientic talent and to
stimulate and support their development.
We ask - You should have several years of experience
in research and teaching in academia after obtaining
a PhD degree, with relevant background to build on.
- A successfully completed academic study (MSc level,
recognized in the Netherlands) and a PhD in evolution,
systematics, genomics, or a comparable discipline are
required. - You should have a vision on how your re-
search and teaching could contribute to these themes.
- As we teach courses for rst-year students, knowing
Dutch or the willingness to learn Dutch is required.
We will evaluate your application on several criteria:
- research quality and output; - experience in (eorts
toward) acquiring external research funding; - interna-
tional (research) experience; - activity in the specic
scientic community; experience in education innovation
and curriculum development; - experience in BSc/MSc
thesis and (PhD dissertation) supervision; - manage-
ment of (interdisciplinary) research projects; - team
player.
We oer Wageningen University & Research oers ex-
cellent terms of employment. A few highlights from our
Collective Labour Agreement include:
- sabbatical leave, study leave, and paid parental leave;
- working hours that can be discussed and arranged so
that they allow for the best possible work-life balance; -
the option to accrue additional holiday hours by work-
ing more, up to 40 hours per week; - there is a strong
focus on vitality and you can make use of the sports
facilities availableon campus for a small fee; - a xed
December bonus of 8.3%; - excellent pension scheme. In
addition to these rst-rate employee benets, you will
be oered a xed-term, 7 year contract which, upon
positive evaluation based on criteria elaborated in the
University's Tenure Track policy, can lead to a perma-
nent employment contract as professor. Depending on
your experience, we oer a competitive salary of be-
tween euro 3.821,- and euro 5.230,- (assistant professor
position) for a full-time working week of 38 hours in74 EvolDir April 1, 2022
accordance with the Collective Labour Agreements for
Dutch Universities (CAO-NU) (scale 11).
Wageningen University & Research encourages internal
advancement opportunities and mobility with an inter-
nal recruitment policy. There are plenty of options for
personal initiative in a learning environment, and we
provide excellent training opportunities. We are oering
a unique position in an international environment witha pleasant and open working atmosphere.
You are going to work at the greenest and most innova-
tive campus
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Other
Celegans MutationAccumulationLines . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Conservation NewGrantOpportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Epistasis SpeciesAssemblages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
GCWilliamsPrize EvolutionaryMedicineAwarded Lu-
caErmini . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MPIO Seewiesen Interns EvolutionCognition . . . . . . 77
Nominations ZukunftskollegAward2022 EvolutionBe-haviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
OmennPrize Best2021ArticleOnEvolMedicine . . . . . .78
Pyrenees FieldworkVolunteers DeadlineMar20 . . . . . 78
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation Mar29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation Mar8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
SMBE Leadership Nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Celegans
MutationAccumulationLines
C. elegans mutation accumulation (MA) lines / commu-
nity resource
A set of ~1000 C. elegans spontaneous mutation accu-
mulation (MA) lines will be publicly available in the
next few months. The lines are derived from six starting
genotypes (CB4856, MY6, XZ1516, JU390, EG8072,
and JU1395) and have been maintained under standard
conditions for a maximum of 300 generations (Gmax00)
of single-individual transfer (i.e., Ne ~1). For each nearly-
isogenic strain, we initiated two sets of 100 MA lines;
one set maintained in the Baer lab at the University
of Florida and one set maintained in the Katju lab at
Texas A&M. Each genotype includes ve replicate large-
population controls. Lines have been cryopreserved at
50-generation intervals. We also cryopreserved a set of
48 replicate \pseudolines" (PS lines) at the outset of
the experiment; PS lines are identical to the MA lines
except they have only diverged from the ancestor for ~3generations rather than ~300 generations. The PS lines
have been and the Gmax00 lines will be cryopreserved
in sets of 48 lines, which can be shipped frozen upon
request. Cryopreserved intermediate generations are
also available but have not been cryopreserved in sets.
Plans are afoot to sequence the genomes of the lines;
sequence data will be made public as it is collected.
Please direct inquiries to Charles Baer (cbaer@u.edu).
Funding provided by NIH award GM127433.
-Charles F. Baer (University of Florida) -Vaishali Katju
(Texas A&M University / Uppsala University, Sweden)
Charles F. Baer Professor Department of Biology / Uni-
versity of Florida Genetics Institute 621 Bartram Hall
876 Newell Dr. University of Florida Gainesville, FL
32611-8525 USA
Oce: 352-392-3550 <tel:352-392-3550 >CELL:
352-327-1138 <tel:352-273-0143 >Fax: 352-392-
3704 <tel:352-392-3704 >Email: cbaer@u.edu web:
http://people.clas.u.edu/cbaer/about/ \Baer,Charles"
<cbaer@u.edu >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 75
Conservation NewGrantOpportunity
The conservation non-prot Revive & Restore has re-
cently launched the \Biotechnology for Bird Conser-
vation Program." Through this program, they have
opened a request for proposals targeting the advance-
ment of reproductive technologies and gene-editing tech-
niques for the entire evolutionary diversity of birds
to enable advanced genetic rescue techniques for the
world's threatened birds, which to date has posed a
challenge due to the diculties of applying mammalian
technologies, like in vitro fertilization and cloning, to egg-
laying reproduction. The RFP website is here: https:/-
/reviverestore.org/biotech-for-birds-rfp/ The deadline
to apply to this grant opportunity is May 1, 2022. We
are requesting that researchers intending to apply send
a letter of intent in advance of their proposal. I hope
you will consider submitting a proposal. The advances
made by researchers funded by this program will forge
a brighter future for the world's birds and wildlife con-
servation. Please send any inquiries to the Program
Manager, Ben Novak, at ben@reviverestore.org.
Ben J. Novak Lead Scientist & Biotechnology for
Bird Conservation Program Manager Revive & Restore
ben@reviverestore.org 828-489-1583 Watch our TED
Talk on \Intended Consequences of Helping Nature
Thrive" Or listen on Apple Podcasts
Ben Novak <ben@reviverestore.org >
Epistasis SpeciesAssemblages
dear and reputable members of the evoldir,
sorry to take your time again with this. My 2019 \epis-
tasis and species assemblages" posting received no feed-
back, but during the last three years exchanges about the
topic with a couple of philosophers of evolbio prompted
me to write down the gedanken experiment below, to
which said philosophers reacted disorientedly.
so i was wondering if some of you may suggest published
precedents and/or critique the gedanken experiment
biologically and/or conceptually.
i am looking forward to your feedback.best
m
===Partitioning of Biosynthetic Flux As Restart Basis
for Ecological and Evolutionary Modelling
by Marcos A. Antezana
Assume species A produces epistatically more numerous
top performers than species B does, and that as individu-
als the top performers are phenotypically identical both
intra- and inter-specically. Assume further that there
are no synergisms that allow a group of top performers
to do better trophically than the sum of the solitary
performances of the top performers in the group.
Assume further that the dierence between the censuses
of the two species' top performers results in a clear dif-
ference between the two species' absolute biosynthetic
uxes (processed energy and limiting molecules per unit
time).
Assume also that top performers mate only with random
non-top-performers and that this suces for reproduc-
ing the two species' genetic and phenotypic epistatic
distributions (with the same proportions of epistatic top
performers as each preceding generation), i.e., within-
species gene frequencies are constant across generations.
Therefore the two species are not identical transmission-
genetically since each generation one of them generates
progeny that includes more top performers than does
the progeny of the other.
After a geographic barrier that separated the two species'
two identical territories is removed, species A out-
competes species B because its more numerous top per-
formers give it a bigger growth rate, e.g., both species are
isogametic but gametes from top performers are better
supplied so that more numerous better-supplied zygotes
are produced by species A's top-performers (even if the
number of such zygotes per top performer is equal in
both species). But again gene frequencies are changing
neither in species A nor in species B.
The example seems to challenge the classic distinction
between \NS (for performances)" and \evolution by
NS (of genotypes)". Indeed here the actually selected-
for performance becomes apparent (think two cryptic
species) only when individuals are grouped (partitioned)
by \genetics" (species status) and then the two groups'
biosynthetic uxes are contrasted.
Biosynthetically speaking, however, any partitioning of
individuals into two heterospecic groups that dier in
their number of top performers as much the two species
here do, would match the actual biosynthetic dieren-
tial of the example and would result potentially in two
similarly dierentiated outputs of better-supplied zy-76 EvolDir April 1, 2022
gotes. But it is clear that the observed evolution by NS
can only happen if matings respect species boundaries
and so allow the crops of epistatic top performers to be
\reproduced".
However, when dealing with say two competing ant
colonies one does not worry too much about the two
colonies' individuals and groups neither intra- nor
inter-colonially. Most would simply view the colonies'
duchesses as individuals that compete with each other
(through their dormative \extended" phenotypes). But
things would not be nearly as \obvious" if developmental
noise were deciding who reproduces in each colony.
A perhaps important dierence to the 2-species example
of interest here is that when an ant colony's reproduc-
tive individuals are randomly designated the biosyn-
thetic ux becomes a whole-colony group performance
that is partly funneled to the reproductive members of
the colony, whereas in the 2-species example the top
performers gather individually their own energy and
resources and share these only with conspecics and
only at fertilization time.
Even more important may be that in the 2-species exam-
ple the competing species dier in their numbers of top
performers, which is akin to two competing ant colonies
with dierent numbers of colony members or like two
individuals with dierent numbers of somatic cells.
Be all of that as it may, it seems that in the 2-species
example NS becomes \clear" only if one looks at who
{genetically delimited{ is being favored by NS (at least
intra-generationally), i.e., the ttest becomes apparent
when one nds out who is ttest.
Less polemically circularly, the example suggests the
generalization that for NS to happen within \a popu-
lation", there must be irreducible absolute-tness dif-
ferences across partitions of a population's \individuals"
but these partitions must coincide to some extent with
partitions of the genetic variation.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GCWilliamsPrize
EvolutionaryMedicineAwarded
LucaErminiThe$1000 George C Willams prize is awarded each year
by the International Society for Evolution, Medicine and
Public Health (http://ISEMPH.org) to the most signif-
icant article published the previous year in Evolution,
Medicine, and Public Health, an open-access journal
with an impact factor of 5.4 published by the Oxford
University Press. The new Editor, Cynthia Beall, can
make publication possible for all accepted articles, ir-
respective of the author's nancial resources. See the
EMPH website for details, or contact the editor about
possible submissions. https://academic.oup.com/emph
The 2022 Prize is awarded to: \Evolutionary selec-
tion of alleles in the melanophilin gene that impacts on
prostate organ function and cancer risk", by Ermini,
Luca, Jerey C Francis, Gabriel S Rosa, Alexandra J
Rose, Jian Ning, Mel Greaves, and Amanda Swain, all
from The Institute of Cancer Research in London. T
The rst author, Luca Ermini, will give a plenary presen-
tation based on the article at ISEMPH 2022 in Lisbon,
July 5-8, 2022. Abstracts for ISEMPH2022 are wel-
come until April 15. https://isemph.org The Prize
Committee also recognized three nalists:
O'Brien, Siobh an, Michael Baumgartner, and Alex R
Hall. 2021. \Species Interactions Drive the Spread of
Ampicillin Resistance in Human-Associated Gut Micro-
biota." Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health 9 (1):
256?>`66.
Thomas, Misty D, Akamu J Ewunkem, Sada Boyd,
Danielle K Williams, Adiya Moore, Kristen L Rhine-
hardt, Emma Van Beveren, et al. 2021. "Too Much
of a Good Thing: Adaption to Iron (II) Intoxication
in Escherichia Coli.\ Evolution, Medicine, and Public
Health 9 (1): 53??"67.
Thompson Gonz alez, Nicole, Zarin Machanda, Emily
Otali, Martin N Muller, Drew K Enigk, Richard Wrang-
ham, and Melissa Emery Thompson. 2021. \Age-
Related Change in Adult Chimpanzee Social Network
Integration." Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health 9
(1): 448?>`59.
Thanks to the Prize Committee, Constantinos
Voskarides (chair), Eric Shattuck, and Jessica Homan,
and to all authors who published articles in Evolution,
Medicine, and Public Health.
nesse@asu.eduApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 77
MPIO Seewiesen Interns
EvolutionCognition
Opportunity!
Projects available for Master's/Bachelor's students and
self-funded Interns in Comparative Cognition Research
Station at Tenerife, Spain run collaboratively between
the Max-Planck Institute for Ornithology and the Loro
Parque Foundation
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition Research
Group (CCRG)
https://www.bi.mpg.de/von-bayern/de invites applica-
tions from Postgraduate/Undergraduate students and
Interns who want to assist in research projects and bird
care, enrichment and management. The CCRG is part
of the collaboration between the Max-Planck Institute
for Ornithology, Germany, and Loro Parque Fundacion
(LPF) in Tenerife, Spain. We are currently carrying out
several projects on parrot intelligence. We work with
mostly tame, captive parrots of LPF, which owns the
largest collection of parrots and genetic reserve in the
world (approximately 350 subspecies) for conservation
and research purposes. Interested candidates are encour-
aged to contact us to request information about ongoing
projects. Selected applicants will gain experience in the
eld of cognitive research, as well as working with and
training exotic parrots in a highly dynamic international
research environment. A unique opportunity!
Preferable time of joining: It is highly preferable if
students can join by April-May 2022
Logistics: The projects for Master's/Bachelor's theses
and internships require a minimum of 4 months but
ideally 6 months of continuous commitment at the re-
search station in Tenerife, Spain. Accommodation can
be provided in a shared student apartment (Puerto de
la Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Selected candidates need to have:
- High motivation and commitment to the care of our
birds
- Preferably pursuing Bachelor's or Master's degree in Bi-
ology/ Psychology/Animal Science or related subjects.
- Reliability, eciency and ability to work independently
- Condence to interact with animals- Good verbal English skills
- Good teamwork attitude and social skills
Submit your request!
For more information on how to apply, please email
Dr. Anastasia Krasheninnikova (akrashe@orn.mpg.de),
the Msc Esha Haldar (ehaldar@orn.mpg.de) or the Msc.
Sara Torres (storres@orn.mpg.de).
Nominations
ZukunftskollegAward2022
EvolutionBehaviour
Final Call for Nomination Thursday March 31: Zukunft-
skolleg Research Award 2022 \Evolution of behaviour"
Dear Madam or Sir
The Zukunftskolleg Research Award was named after
the Institute for Advanced Studies founded at the Uni-
versity of Konstanz in 2009, the \Zukunftskolleg". It
is aimed at early-career researchers in the phase after
their doctorate and before their rst permanent position.
Excellent research, high visibility, scientic and research
networks as well as transdisciplinary communication cre-
ate an environment that strengthens individual fellows
at the most vulnerable stage of their academic careers.
Topic\Evolution of behaviour" Evolution is the driving
force behind the beauty of life on earth: Bacteria, plants,
fungi and animals with their amazing diversity have al-
ways fascinated people. Behaviour in this framework is
both the result of evolutionary change and a driver of
long-term change.
However, we are still far from understanding the recip-
rocal relationships: How do evolutionary mechanisms
inhibit or force the development of new behavioural
skills? How do new behavioural traits aect speciation,
selection pressure or even extinction? The Zukunft-
skolleg Research Award will recognize a researcher who
breaks new ground in these exciting times: How does
evolution shape behaviour? How do collectives respond
to evolutionary pressures? How can animal communities
change the environment through their behaviour and
thus modify the selection pressure for themselves and
other species? The University of Konstanz has a strong
tradition of outstanding research in evolutionary biology
since its foundation in 1966. The very rst professor of
evolutionary biology at this university, Professor Hubert
Markl, understood that evolution and behaviour must78 EvolDir April 1, 2022
be considered together. Behaviour is not an individual
characteristic, but happens in groups. In cooperation
with the Max Planck Institute of Animal Behaviour, the
University of Konstanz hosts the Cluster of Excellence
\Centre for the Advanced Study of Collective Behaviour",
which attracts outstanding scientists from the elds of
biology, psychology, computer science, economics and
physics.
Nominate excellent researchers for the Zukunftskolleg
Research Awarduntil March 31, 2022.
https://stellen.uni-konstanz.de/jobposting/-
e547d0540c078c45c47636ccc63ccf245b305ad70 Find
more information on the Award and Zukunftskolleg
here: https://www.uni-konstanz.de/zukunftskolleg/-
about-zukunftskolleg/zukunftskolleg-research-award/
Best regards
Petra-Alexandra Buhl, M.A.
Coordinator Zukunftskolleg ResearchAward Zukun-
ftskolleg Universit >1
2t Konstanz D - 78457 Kon-
stanz http://www.zukunftskolleg.uni.kn zuko-
award2022@uni-konstanz.de zuko-award2022@uni-
konstanz.de
OmennPrize
Best2021ArticleOnEvolMedicine
Nominate an article for the $5000 Omenn Prize for best
article on a topic related to evolution in the context of
medicine and public health.
Full information at https://isemph.org/Omenn-Prize
The$5000 Gilbert S. Omenn Prize is awarded by the In-
ternational Society for Evolution, Medicine, and Public
Health (http://isemph.org) for the best article published
in the previous calendar year on a topic related to evo-
lution in the context of medicine and public health.
Nominations are open until April 8, 2022 for the best
article in any peer-reviewed journal on a topic related to
evolution in the context of medicine and public health
with a nal publication date in 2021. The winning ar-
ticle will be announced May 1, 2022 and the prize will
be awarded to the rst author of the article who will
be invited to give a plenary talk at the 2022 ISEMPH
Annual Meeting July 5-9 in Lisbon, Portugal.
All peer-reviewed articles with a publication date of
2021 that use evolutionary principles to advance un-
derstanding of a disease or disease process are eligible.The prize committee will give priority to articles with
implications for human health, but many basic science
or theoretical articles have such implications. Authors
are encouraged to nominate their own articles, but nom-
inations of articles by others are also welcome. Articles
by author's with close associations with members of the
prize committee are not eligible.
The prize is made possible by a generous donation by
Gilbert Omenn, M.D., PhD. Director of the Center for
Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics at the Uni-
versity of Michigan where he is a Professor of Internal
Medicine, Human Genetics, and Public Health. Dr.
Omenn served as Executive Vice President for Medi-
cal Aairs as Chief Executive Ocer of the University
of Michigan Health System from 1997-2002. He is a
past president of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science and a member of the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
This year's prize committee is chaired by Caleb Finch.
Randolph Nesse <nesse@umich.edu >
Pyrenees FieldworkVolunteers
DeadlineMar20
Fieldwork volunteers wanted (Deadline Approaching)
Help us study plant evolution in the Spanish Pyrenees!
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Sci-
ence and Technology (IST) Austria (https://-
bartongroup.pages.ist.ac.at/)is looking for volunteers to
assist with eldwork on plant speciation in the Spanish
Pyrenees this coming summer (late May - early August).
This is a great opportunity for anyone looking to obtain
experience in eldwork related to evolutionary biology,
speciation and plant ecology.
The project: We study evolutionary dynamics and spe-
ciation in snapdragons. The study, which has been
running since 2009, involves eldwork in natural hy-
brid zones between two subspecies with ower colour
dierences. The goal is to understand how dierent
evolutionary forces like natural selection have shaped
this diversity.
The eldwork: We are seeking volunteers to assist with
the eldwork, which involves working in teams to map
locations of individual plants (GPS) (the plants are pri-
marily found on the roadsides), tag and sample them for
leaves and owers, measure traits, and process material
for later DNA extraction. There may also be oppor-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 79
tunities to be involved in other projects focusing on
pollinator behaviour and plant-insect interactions. The
work is outdoors as well as indoors - about one-third of
the of time will be spent indoors curating leaf samples
and organizing and preparing sampling equipment. The
work is highly team orientated, typically in groups of
2-3 in the eld and larger groups processing samples
back at the research station. Since we aim to sample
all living individuals in the hybrid zone during the ow-
ering season, the daily workload can vary signicantly.
At peak season, we are often very busy and our daily
routines change accordingly.
The location: The eld site is near Planoles in a beautiful
part of the Pyrenees in North Eastern Spain (Catalo-
nia). We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a
picturesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages.
The ideal applicant: is an enthusiastic, hardworking bi-
ology student with strong interest in working outdoors.
You must be meticulous with recording data and also be
comfortable working as part of a team. Experience with
eld-based projects and plants is helpful but not essen-
tial. Climbing experience is useful as a small amount
work is conducted on ropes. We are looking for volun-
teers between the 29th May and the 1st of August. We
ask people to commit to stay for 3 weeks. Applicants
must be located in Europe or the UK.
What we cover: All food, lodgings, Covid testing and
travel within Europe/UK are covered.
How to apply? By the closing date of March 20th please
send (i) your CV, (ii) a short explanation about why you
are interested, and (iii) your availability between the
above dates to eldvolunteer2022@gmail.com. Please
send any questions to the same address.
For eldwork photos and more information, please
visit the Barton Group eld work page: https:/-
/bartongroup.pages.ist.ac.at/eldwork-2022/
Arka Pal (arka.pal@ist.ac.at) Sean Stankowski
(sean.stankowski@ist.ac.at)
Arka Pal <arka.pal@ist.ac.at >Seminar ESEB STN Speciation
Mar29
Dear colleagues,
A reminder that the third session of the monthly on-
line seminar series organised by the ESEB-funded STN
network  >1
2Integration Of Speciation Research  >1
2
(https://speciation-network.pages.ist.ac.at) will be held
on Tuesday 29th March 2022, 5 pm CET. Previously this
event had to be postponed due to technical problems.
This is the nal session of a series of three addressing the
general topic of bridging the gap between micro- and
macro-evolution in speciation research. This session
will focus on the role of phylogenies and broad-scale
comparative analyses in bridging this gap.
We welcome as speakers H >1
2l >1
2ne Morlon (Ecole Nor-
male Sup >1
2rieure, France) and Daniel Rabosky (Uni-
versity of Michigan, US). The session will last 1.5 hours.
The rst hour is dedicated to talks from our speakers
and questions, and the last half an hour to more general
discussion.
To attend the session live, please follow the link below:
Webinar link: https://gu-
se.zoom.us/j/61007486919?pwd=-
bXYyY2l6UjU5UG5tNUNuNVdnUXZiZz09 Passcode:
940593
Talks (but not discussion sessions) are recorded and
are available here: https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UClEkDdE 5sDw70SQq78DIAA The IOS network does
not only aim at scientic integration, but also integra-
tion of the community. A main objective on this front
is to foster diversity and inclusion across the eld. The
seminar series and subsequent discussion is open to
everyone, from students to established researchers and
non-scientists alike. In order to maximise the geographic
diversity of attendees, we will alternate between two
time slots every other month: 5 pm CET and 9 am CET.
Please help us to circulate this email to anyone who
may be interested, especially those in countries that are
typically underrepresented in scientic discourse.
The programme of the seminar series is announced by
email, on Twitter (@Speciation net) and on the IOS
network website. People who wish to automatically
receive the programme and other news from the IOS
network can sign up to the network mailing list from80 EvolDir April 1, 2022
the IOS website.
We look forward to seeing you there!
STN IOS organising committee: Jonna Kulmuni (chair),
Chris Cooney, Sean Stankowski, Carole Smadja (co-
chairs), Sonal Singhal, Liz Scordato, Joana Meier,
Richard Merrill, Konrad Lohse, Nick Barton and Roger
Butlin.
NERC Fellow School of Biosciences Univer-
sity of Sheeld www.cooneylab.co.uk Chris
Cooney <c.cooney@sheeld.ac.uk >Chris Cooney
<c.cooney@sheeld.ac.uk >
Seminar ESEB STN Speciation
Mar8
Dear colleagues,
A reminder that the third session of the monthly on-
line seminar series organised by the ESEB-funded STN
network  >1
2Integration Of Speciation Research  >1
2
(https://speciation-network.pages.ist.ac.at) will be held
on Tuesday the 8th of March 2022, 5 pm CET. This
is the nal session of a series of three addressing the
general topic of how to bridge the gap between micro-
and macro evolution in speciation research. This session
will focus on the role of phylogenies and broad scale
comparative analyses in bridging this gap.
We welcome as speakers H >1
2l >1
2ne Morlon (Ecole Nor-
male Sup >1
2rieure, France) and Daniel Rabosky (Uni-
versity of Michigan, US). The session will last 1.5 hours,
with the rst hour dedicated to the two talks and ques-
tions, and the last half-an-hour dedicated to a discussion
session.
Talk titles:
H >1
2l >1
2ne Morlon: Towards process-based comparative
models for bridging micro and macroevolution specia-
tion research
Dan Rabosky: Microevolution, macroevolution, and the
origin of species: how can we make \speciation" a more
predictive scientic theory?
To attend the session live, please follow the links below:
Webinar link: https://-
istaustria.zoom.us/j/69732628640?pwd=-
dFlGY1d3cjVoYml6NG1yeWpXYlRiQT09 Passcode:
151814
Discussion link: https://-istaustria.zoom.us/j/66735685984?pwd=-
K09wajhQY0dvNE5pdGtkWDlxaklvQT09 Meeting ID:
667 3568 5984 Passcode: 463047
Talks (but not discussion sessions) are recorded and
are available here: https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UClEkDdE 5sDw70SQq78DIAA The IOS network does
not only aim at scientic integration, but also integra-
tion of the community. A main objective on this front
is to foster diversity and inclusion across the eld. The
seminar series and subsequent discussion is open to
everyone, from students to established researchers and
non-scientists alike. In order to maximise the geographic
diversity of attendees, we will alternate between two
time slots every other month: 5 pm CET and 9 am CET.
Please help us to circulate this email to anyone who
may be interested, especially those in countries that are
typically underrepresented in scientic discourse.
The programme of the seminar series is announced by
email, on Twitter (@Speciation net) and on the IOS
network website. People who wish to automatically
receive the programme and other news from the IOS
network can sign up to the network mailing list from
the IOS website.
We hope to see many of you on Tuesday the 8th of
March, 5 pm CET.
The STN IOS organising committee Jonna Kulmuni
(chair), Chris Cooney, Sean Stankowski, Carole Smadja
(co-chairs), Sonal Singhal, Liz Scordato, Joana Meier,
Richard Merrill, Konrad Lohse, Nick Barton and Roger
Butlin.
NERC Fellow School of Biosciences Uni-
versity of Sheeld www.cooneylab.co.uk
\c.cooney@sheeld.ac.uk" <c.cooney@sheeld.ac.uk >
SMBE Leadership Nominations
Dear Colleagues,
We are writing to solicit nominations for SMBE
President-Elect, Secretary and 2 Councilors whose terms
will begin on January 1, 2023. All of these positions are
for a duration of three years. As the society grows and
thrives, council members play important roles in guid-
ing its development and in soliciting and implementing
programs that support our members, while enriching
opportunities for young scientists from around the world,
and overseeing our two excellent journals (MBE and
GBE) as well as our annual meeting, regional meetings,April 1, 2022 EvolDir 81
and satellite meetings.
Nominations will be reviewed by the nominations
committee* who will then put forward a slate
of two candidates for each position for member-
ship vote. Past and current council members are
at this URL: https://www.smbe.org/smbe/ABOUT/-
Council.aspx Please send nominations with a brief state-
ment in support of your suggestion (self-nominations are
welcome) to Justin Blumenstiel <jblumens@ku.edu >
and Nadia Singh <secretary.smbe@gmail.com >.
*Nota bene: we ask the nominators to conrm explic-
itly that the person they are nominating has already
conrmed their willingness to run for oce.
Please send your nominations by Friday, April 15, 2022.
We look forward to hearing from you!
Sincerely yours,Nadia Singh Secretary of SMBE, on behalf of the Nom-
inations Committee*
and
Justin Blumenstiel Chair of Nominations Commit-
tee *The Nominations Committee is composed as fol-
lows: Justin Blumenstiel (Chair), University of Kansas,
United States Andrea Betancourt, University of Liver-
pool, United Kingdom Tal Dagan, Christian-Albrechts
University of Kiel, Germany David Enard, University
of Arizona, United States Jun-Yi Leu, Academia Sinica,
Taiwan Aurora Ruiz-Herrera, Universitat Aut >1
2noma
de Barcelona, Spain Yonas Tekle, Spelman College,
United States Nadia Singh (ex ocio), University of
Oregon, United States
\Blumenstiel, Justin P" <jblumens@ku.edu >\Blumen-
stiel, Justin P" <jblumens@ku.edu >
PostDocs
BangorU AmphibianMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Bolzano Italy InsectSymbiontGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .82
CalforniaStateUNorthridge EcologicalGenetics . . . . .83
ColoradoStateU EvolutionGxE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
CornellU CnidarianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Czechia ComputationalMolecularBiology . . . . . . . . . . 85
Czechia TetrahymenaGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
EasternMennoniteU InsectGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
EmoryU TheoreticalEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . 87
FRankfurt ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
GothenburgU 3yr ComputationalEvolution . . . . . . . . 88
INRAE France PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
INRAE Toulouse ResourceAllocationModelling . . . . 89
InstMicrobiology Czechia MitochondrialMetabolicEvo-
lution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Juneau Fish eDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
KielU IKMB HostMicrobiomeSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
KU Leuven PolarSeascapeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Lausanne Switzerland ArthropodEvolution . . . . . . . . 93
London EvolutionDNAmethylation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Madrid EvolBioengineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
MichiganStateU InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
MuensterU EvolutionaryPsychiatry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
NewYorkCity HumanPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 96
NewYork DeptHealth LymeDisFuncEvolution . . . . . 97NewYorkU AbuDhabi AdaptiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . .98
NewZealand StickInsectGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
NortheasternU MarineBivalveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 100
OriginsInst McMasterU ExptOriginsOfLife . . . . . . . 101
Paris SexChromosomeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
PrincetonU HummingbirdColorVision . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
QueenMaryU London EvolutionSymbiosis . . . . . . . . 103
RiceU 2yr EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
SussexU TransposobleElementsInPlants . . . . . . . . . . 105
SyracuseU MutalismCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UAberdeen LandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
UAuckland AlgorithmicPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UBern Eawag Paleolimnology LakeVictoria . . . . . . .106
UBristol EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UBrussels TropicalTreePopGenomicsBioinformatics 108
UBualo EcolEvolBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UCalgary TheoryGenomicsAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UCyprus PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
UEdinburgh GenomicBreedingOfForages . . . . . . . . . 111
UExeter EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UFlorida AvianPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UFlorida LepidopteraGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UGuelph 8 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UHelsinki 9 ForestTreeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UManchester MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11582 EvolDir April 1, 2022
UmeU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
UNorthCarolina Charlotte ElephantPopGenetics . 116
UOtago LifeHistory SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UppsalaU MobileGeneticElementDefense . . . . . . . . . 117
UppsalaU SystematicMycology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
UPuertoRico 2 ButteryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
URomeTorVergata MetagenomicsAncientCats . . . . 119
USGS Flagsta PlantPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 120USouthBohemia EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .121
UToronto UrbanBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
WashingtonStateU EvolutionaryModelling . . . . . . . .122
Yale 6 BiodiversityConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
YaleU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .123
YaleU TortoiseConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
BangorU AmphibianMicrobiome
Postdoctoral Research Ocer in transcriptomics & host-
microbiome interactions Deadline: April 1st 2022
Applications are invited for a 2.5 year xed-
term, full-time Postdoctoral Research Ocer in
transcriptomics/host-microbiome interactions within
the School of Natural Sciences, Bangor University. The
successful applicant will join a thriving and diverse com-
munity of environmental scholars undertaking world-
leading research. Duties will include preparation of tis-
sue samples for (meta)transcriptomic sequencing, analy-
sis of transcriptomic, metatranscriptomic and single-cell
RNAseq datasets, liaising with and visiting US and
Panamanian project partners, organising UK-US work-
shops, and the preparation of manuscripts for publica-
tion.
Candidates should possess a PhD (or near comple-
tion) in disease biology, host-microbiome interactions,
(meta)transcriptomics, computational biology or a re-
lated discipline, preferably with expertise in laboratory
and computational analysis of host-microbiome interac-
tions and metatranscriptomes.
For informal enquiries contact: Amy Ellison
a.ellison@bangor.ac.uk
For more information and to apply:
https://jobs.bangor.ac.uk/details.php.en?id=-
QLYFK026203F3VBQB7V68LOTX&nPostingID=-
6380&nPostingTargetID=6874&mask=stdext&lg=UK
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu gyda'r Brifysgol yn Gymraeg
neu Saesneg
You are welcome to contact the University in Welsh or
English
Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 - Registered Charity
No. 1141565
Gall y neges e-bost hon, ac unrhyw atodiadau a anfon-
wyd gyda hi, gynnwys deunydd cyfrinachol ac wedi eubwriadu i'w defnyddio'n unig gan y sawl y cawsant eu
cyfeirio ato (atynt). Os ydych wedi derbyn y neges e-
bost hon trwy gamgymeriad, rhowch wybod i'r anfonwr
ar unwaith a dilewch y neges. Os na fwriadwyd anfon y
neges atoch chi, rhaid i chi beidio a defnyddio, cadw neu
ddatgelu unrhyw wybodaeth a gynhwysir ynddi. Mae
unrhyw farn neu safbwynt yn eiddo i'r sawl a'i hanfon-
odd yn unig ac nid yw o anghenraid yn cynrychioli barn
Prifysgol Bangor. Nid yw Prifysgol Bangor yn gwarantu
bod y neges e-bost hon neu unrhyw atodiadau yn rhydd
rhag rysau neu 100% yn ddiogel. Oni bai fod hyn wedi
ei ddatgan yn uniongyrchol yn nhestun yr e-bost, nid
bwriad y neges e-bost hon yw uro contract rhwymol -
mae rhestr o lofnodwyr awdurdodedig ar gael o Swyddfa
Cyllid Prifysgol Bangor.
This email and any attachments may contain conden-
tial material and is solely for the use of the intended
recipient(s). If you have received this email in error,
please notify the sender immediately and delete this
email. If you are not the intended recipient(s), you must
not use, retain or disclose any information contained in
this email. Any views or opinions are solely those of the
sender and do not necessarily represent those of Bangor
University. Bangor University does not guarantee that
this email or any attachments are free from viruses or
100% secure. Unless expressly stated in the body of
the text of the email, this email is not intended to form
a binding contract - a list of authorised signatories is
available from the Bangor University Finance Oce.
Amy Ellison <a.ellison@bangor.ac.uk >
Bolzano Italy
InsectSymbiontGenomics
A Postdoctoral position is oered at the Free University
of Bozen-Bolzano (Italy) in the lab of Hannes Schuler.
The successful applicant will be involved in dierent
ongoing projects in the research group focusing on sym-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 83
bionts of psyllids, Rhagoletis fruit ies and bark beetles.
The position is funded for one year renewable for eight
months with a potential extension.
The project aims to unravel factors inuencing phyto-
plasma transmission by plant-sucking insects. Phyto-
plasmas are bacterial pathogens that cause hundreds
of plant diseases aecting many important vegetables
and fruit crops, thus being responsible for high yield
losses worldwide. These pathogens reside in the plant's
phloem and transmission among plants is mainly me-
diated by phloem-sucking insects. Apple proliferation
is a disease caused by the phytoplasma 'Candidatus
Phytoplasma mali'. While several phloem feeders occur
on apple, only a small number is able to acquire and
transmit phytoplasmas. We aim to unravel dierent
phytoplasma transmission pathways in dierent insect
vectors using a population genetic approach.
We are looking for an enthusiastic candidate with a
strong background in next-generation sequencing and
bioinformatic analyses. The candidate will be responsi-
ble to investigate factors aecting transmission eciency
of Phytoplasma mali by the two main vectors Cacopsylla
picta and Cacopsylla melanoneura. Specically, s/he
will perform population genetic analyses of the insects
and its symbionts.
The following activities are planned: - Insect sampling
- Experimental acquisition and transmission of phyto-
plasma - Genetic characterization of dierent insect-
vector species and populations - Sequencing and charac-
terization of various endosymbionts
The project is in close collaboration with Christian
Stauer (Boku Vienna), Katrin Janik (Research Centre
Laimburg), Rosemarie Tedeschi (University of Turin)
and Omar Rota-Stabelli (Fondazione Edmund Mach).
The Free University of Bozen-Bolzano is located in one
of the most fascinating European regions, at the cross-
roads between the German-speaking and Italian cultures.
Its trilingualism in teaching and research, its high level
of internationalisation as well as an ideal study environ-
ment guaranteed by its excellent facilities are some of
the reasons why unibz regularly reaches top positions
in national and international rankings. The Schuler
lab is member of the newly funded Competence Centre
for Plant Health, a joint institution which consists of
several research groups in the eld of Biology, Agricul-
tural Sciences and Engineering https://www.unibz.it/-
en/home/research/competence-centre-plant-health We
are a young and dynamic research group studying vari-
ous aspects of insect-microbe interactions in a collabo-
rative atmosphere http://hschuler.people.unibz.it We
are looking for an enthusiastic candidate with a strong
background in insect ecology and evolution. Compe-tences with molecular genetic methods, next generation
sequencing and bioinformatics as well as experience with
ecological studies, collection and handling of insects are
desired.
General requirements for the position: PhD degree (or
close to completion) in Agricultural Sciences, Agricul-
tural Biotechnology, Ecology and Evolution with a multi-
disciplinary prole. The candidate should have excellent
communication skills and should be uent in English.
The project is expected to start in May 2022, but the
starting date is negotiable. Deadline for applications is
18.03.2022 (noon).
All documents for the application procedure can be
found here: https://www.unibz.it/en/home/position-
calls/positions-for-academic-sta/5690-allgemeine-
und-angewandte-entomologie-prof-schuler?group=
For informal inquiries, and for questions about
the hiring process, please contact Hannes Schuler
hannes.schuler@unibz.it
Prof. Hannes Schuler Competence Centre for
Plant Health Faculty of Science and Technology
Free University of Bozen-Bolzano Universit atsplatz
5 I-39100 Bozen-Bolzano Tel: +39 0471 017648
http://hschuler.people.unibz.it Schuler Hannes
<Hannes.Schuler@unibz.it >
CalforniaStateUNorthridge
EcologicalGenetics
To view this post in formatted HTML, please
visit https://lab.jbyoder.org/join-the-yoder-lab-for-
postdoctoral-research The Yoder Lab at California
State University Northridge is hiring a Postdoctoral
Scholar to contribute to ongoing NSF-funded re-
search examining Joshua tree's adaptation to desert
climates and coevolution with specialized pollina-
tors, as part of the Joshua Tree Genome Project (
https://www.joshuatreegenome.org).
The Postdoctoral Scholar will work with PI Jeremy
Yoder to develop analysis of recently collected whole-
genome sequence data for a \genomic inventory" of
300 Joshua trees, and integrate this with data collected
from Joshua tree seedlings grown in common garden
experiments. They will also help with eldwork in the
common gardens and across the Mojave, and contribute
to managing the Yoder Lab's small group of graduate
and undergraduate student researchers. Finally, and84 EvolDir April 1, 2022
perhaps most importantly, the position is understood to
be one for professional development | the scholar will
work with the PI to develop project ideas, identify op-
portunities for training or experience, write proposals for
external funding and fellowships, and pursue permanent
positions in academia, government, or industry.
The Yoder Lab is part of the Department of Biology
at California State University Northridge, in greater
Los Angeles, California, geographically convenient for
professional networking and scientic interactions with
six other CSU campuses, three University of California
campuses, the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles
County, and the California Botanic Garden. Through
the Joshua Tree Genome Project, the Postdoctoral
Scholar will interact with collaborators at Willamette
University in Salem, Oregon; the US Geological Survey;
the University of Hawai'i at M^ anoa; the University of
Alabama, Birmingham; and the Carnegie Institution for
Science.
The position is funded for two years, and may continue
longer pending additional grant or fellowship support.
The annual salary will start at $62,400, with benets
as an employee of The University Corporation, the non-
prot entity that manages grants funding for CSUN.
Qualied applicants will have interest and expertise in
evolution, ecology, and ecological genomics, and should
have either completed a Ph.D. in a relevant eld or
anticipate completion before their proposed start date.
Experience working with genomic data, managing data-
intensive projects, and uency in the Unix command
line and the R statistical programming environment are
desirable as well. The Yoder Lab welcomes all aspects of
human diversity, and candidates whose identities are un-
derrepresented in evolution and ecology are particularly
encouraged to apply.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled,
but to ensure consideration they must be received by
March 28. The start date is exible, and \remote start"
options will be considered.
Applicants with questions about the lab, the depart-
ment, the project, or any other aspect of the po-
sition are encouraged to contact the PI: https://-
lab.jbyoder.org/contact To apply, follow instructions
on the CSUN Human Resources posting for the posi-
tion, at https://careers.pageuppeople.com/873/nr/en-
us/job/512082/postdoctoral-scholar-tuc-biology Jeremy
Yoder <jbyoder@gmail.com >ColoradoStateU EvolutionGxE
Evolution and Genetics of Adaptive Plasticity in maize
root systems
https://agsci.colostate.edu/mckaylab/ The McKay Lab
at Colorado State University is searching for a postdoc
to research the loci underlying variation in how the root
systems of maize genotypes vary across environments
and time. The postdoc will use a rich and increasing set
of empirical data we have generated on the genotype to
phenotype map of root traits and how they respond to
drought and nutrients, to generate functional genetic
hypothesis. The postdoc will then design experiments
to test these hypotheses using mutants and engineered
genotypes in maize and other plant species.
Target application date is 31 March 2022. This position
will remain open until lled.
To apply or get more information, go to
https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/99801
\McKay,John" <John.McKay@ColoState.EDU >
CornellU CnidarianEvolution
Postdoc Position in the Babonis Lab at Cornell Univer-
sity
Posted: 7 March 2022
Open until lled
The Babonis Lab in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology at Cornell University seeks to
hire a highly motivated postdoc to work on the cellu-
lar, molecular, and developmental biology of cnidarians
(corals, sea anemones, jellysh). The Babonis Lab is
interested in understanding the origin of taxon-specic
traits (novelties) across levels of organization. Primary
areas of interest in the lab currently include: the func-
tional diversication of cnidocytes (stinging cells), the
emergence of specialized animal secretory cell types, the
evolution of stem cell identity, and the origin of novel
genes. The Babonis Lab uses a broad range of taxa
and techniques for interrogating the evolutionary and
developmental drivers of novelty and provides a highlyApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 85
collaborative and interdisciplinary environment to sup-
port exploratory studies and maximize opportunities
for discovery. For more information on our interests,
visit: www.babonislab.com . To qualify, applicants must
have a Ph.D. (or be close to earning one) and exper-
tise in molecular biology, genetics, and biochemistry.
The ideal candidate will also have signicant experience
with transgenesis, functional genomics and genome edit-
ing (including CRISPR/Cas9 technology), gene delivery
techniques (e.g. microinjection, electroporation), and
expertise in DNA and RNA sequencing and analysis.
The position will be appointed initially for 1 year with
the option to renew pending satisfactory performance
and available funding. Salary is commensurate with
NIH standards.
To apply, please submit a current curriculum vitae, a
1-page statement of research interests detailing experi-
ence with the required and preferred techniques, and
contact information for two professional references by
email to Leslie Babonis (lsb257@cornell.edu). Review of
applications will begin April 1, 2022 and will continue
until the position is lled.
Leslie S. Babonis, PhD (she/her) Assistant Professor
Curator of Marine Invertebrates Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology Cornell University E145 Corson Hall Ithaca,
NY 14853
babonislab.com lsb257@cornell.edu
Leslie Babonis <lsb257@cornell.edu >
Czechia
ComputationalMolecularBiology
Postdoc in computational or molecular genetics
Algal evolution and ecology group ( https://-
www.alga.cz/en/c-874-jan-janouskovec-s-group.html) at
Centre Algatech, Institute of Microbiology, Czech Re-
public is seeking a postdoctoral researcher in Compu-
tational or Molecular genetics. The group, led by Jan
Janou ^A1kovec and Eva Hor akov a, is under the umbrella
of the Laboratory of Photosynthesis. We study the
evolution, ecology, and molecular biology of algae, pro-
tists and cyanobacteria (e.g., Janouskovec et al., 2017,
PNAS 114(2); Janouskovec et al., 2017 Curr Biol 27(23);
Janouskovec et al., 2019, eLife 8, e49662). Located in
a picturesque historic building in the middle of a UN-
ESCO Biospheric Reserve and regional tourist hotspot,
Centre Algatech hosts several internationally recognizedgroups in microbial research. With a high proportion of
foreign researchers and a friendly, collegial atmosphere,
Centre Algatech is driven by research excellence and
currently hosts several major funding awards (ERC,
EXPRO). The working language is English. We have
outstanding facilities for modern biological research and
strong ties with the Biology Center and University of
South Bohemia in ~Aesk e Bud ~A, the nearby regional
capital.
We seek candidates with a strong background in compu-
tational or molecular biology to contribute to ongoing
projects focused on single-cell sequencing, genome-to-
function prediction, and gene characterization. We re-
quire a PhD degree in Computational or Molecular
biology (or are about to nish one soon), rst-author
publications in well established journals, independent
thinking, and strong communication skills. A candidate
with a computational background will have experience
developing computational pipelines, big data analysis,
and Shell, Python/Perl, R, or other programming lan-
guages; experience with the preparation of sequencing
libraries pipelines is a strength. A candidate with a
molecular background will have strong experience in ge-
netic transformation, gene cloning and expression analy-
sis; experience with bioinformatics or metabolomics will
be considered a strength.
We oer the candidates individual solid mentorship and
opportunities to network, instruct PhD and MSc stu-
dents and participate in international meetings. The
projects involve collaboration with the University of
Cambridge (UK), University of Southampton (UK), Al-
fred Wegener Institute (Germany) and ICM Barcelona
(Spain). The institute will oer a postdoctoral con-
tract based on standard Czech academic pay grades,
considering the amount of previous experience. The
contract includes health and dental insurance paid by
the employer and is topped with generous benets, in-
cluding lunch vouchers, sport activity vouchers, and a
paid vacation of 30 days per year. The contract will be
for 3 years, including an initial probation period of 3
months. All applications received by March 31, 2022
will be reviewed.
To apply: Please send a SINGLE PDF document in
English containing the following information in the fol-
lowing order to Lucie Fraitova: fraitova@alga.cz - Moti-
vation letter detailing your t for the position (1 page
max.) - Curriculum Vitae including a complete list of
peer-reviewed publications (3 pages max.) - Contact in-
formation for 2 academic referees (do not include letters
with the application)
For further information about the position please con-
tact: Jan Janouskovec: janouskovec@alga.cz Centre86 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Algatech, Institute of Microbiology, Trebon, Czech Re-
public
Jan Janou ^A1kovec <janjan.cz@gmail.com >
Czechia TetrahymenaGenetics
Postdoctoral position in Tetrahymena genetics - Insti-
tute of Microbiology, Czech Republic
We are hiring a postdoctoral researcher in Tetrahymena
genetics at the Institute of Microbiology, Czech Repub-
lic (Centre Algatech in Trebon). Our group is studying
the metabolism in mitochondria and chloroplasts in a
variety of protistan models: https://www.alga.cz/en/-
c-874-jan-janouskovec-s-group.html. The postdoctoral
researcher will focus on understanding mitochondrial
phospholipid synthesis in Tetrahymena thermophila by
using subcellular protein localization, gene knockout,
subcellular fractionation, stable isotope labelling, and
other methods. We are looking for someone with pre-
vious experience in genetics on Tetrahymena (or other
ciliates or single-celled eukaryotes), an outgoing person-
ality, and passion for cell biology.
We study cell biology, evolution and ecology of protists
and algae (e.g., Janouskovec et al., 2017, PNAS 114(2);
Janouskovec et al., 2017 Curr Biol 27(23); Janouskovec
et al., 2019, eLife 8, e49662). Our Centre is located
in a picturesque location in the middle of a UNESCO
Biospheric Reserve and hosts several internationally-
known microbiology groups. The Centre has a warm,
collegial atmosphere, a high proportion of international
researchers, and English as the work language. We have
outstanding facilities for biological research and strong
ties with universities abroad: the position may include
work at the University of Southampton and University
of Cambridge in the UK. The position is available for
three years.
The applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and
the position remains open until lled. Interviews will
begin in April 2022. To receive more information or ap-
ply for the position (include a short CV with two referee
contacts) please contact Jan at janouskovec@alga.cz
Jan Janouskovec Group Leader, Institute of Microbiol-
ogy, Czechia
Jan Janou ^Akovec <janjan.cz@gmail.com >EasternMennoniteU InsectGenomics
A position is available for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate through Eastern Mennonite University to in-
vestigate control of tropical insect pests using genetic,
genomic, and bioinformatic techniques, with the work lo-
cation being the USDA-ARS Pacic Basin Agricultural
Research Center located in Hilo, Hawaii.
The selected candidate will investigate the invasion of
a new insect pest, the Queensland Longhorned Beetle,
Acalolepta aesthetica (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) on
Hawaii Island using whole genome sequencing, transcrip-
tome sequencing, and population genetics.
The desired candidate will have a strong background in
invasion biology, bioinformatic analysis of genomic and
population genetics, and computational biology through
a command-line interface.
Candidates who have demonstrated strong written and
oral communication skills, experience working indepen-
dently and as part of a group, and strong interpersonal
skills are encouraged to apply.
A PhD in biology, genetics, evolution, entomology, or
related disciplines is required at the time of application.
The position will be hired through Eastern Mennonite
University and the candidate selected will serve as a
postdoctoral research associate with an annual salary of
$66,002 with health benets. The position is guaranteed
for one year with the possibility of extension contingent
on performance. The position will be based in Hilo on
the Big Island of Hawaii.
For this position, the hiring body (Eastern Mennonite
University) is unable to sponsor foreign nationals, and
thus all applicants must have the right to work in the
United States.
If interested, please submit a cover letter, CV, and the
contact information of three references to: Dr. Sheina
Sim, sheina[dot]sim[at]usda[dot]gov.
While the candidate will not be employed in the federal
service, it is relevant to note that the US Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service is an equal
opportunity/armative action employer and all agency
services are available without discrimination.
Eastern Mennonite University is an equal opportunity
employer, committed to enhancing diversity across the
institution. Eastern Mennonite University does not dis-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 87
criminate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic
origin, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, or gender
identity. EMU conducts criminal background investiga-
tions as part of the hiring process.
Sheina B. Sim, PhD USDA-ARS Daniel K. Inouye US
Pacic Basin Agricultural Research Center Hilo, HI
96720 USA
\Sim, Sheina - ARS" <sheina.sim@usda.gov >
EmoryU
TheoreticalEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral fellowships in the Theory and Modeling
of Living Systems are available at Emory University!
Please see https://livingtheory.emory.edu/news-events/-
open-positions.html. Faculty particularly interested in
mentoring Fellows working on evolution include Daniel
Weissman (me!), Katia Koelle, Tim Read, Rustom An-
tia, and Nic Vega.
Fellows are free to work with any faculty and on any
project that they're interested in. I am especially look-
ing for potential Fellows who want to develop new ap-
proaches for learning the evolutionary dynamics of viral
and microbial populations from large-scale sequencing.
Possibilities include working with me and Tim on un-
derstanding population structure and patterns of gene
exchange in bacteria, or working with me and Katia
on evolutionary dynamics in SARS-CoV-2 or inuenza.
I'm also very happy to hire people who would prefer to
focus more on basic theory, including but not limited to
evolution on tness landscapes and the interaction be-
tween adaptation and spatial structure and their eects
on genetic diversity.
If you're interested and would like to hear more about
the specics, please email me. Successful applicants will
have a PhD and a strong publication record in evolution,
population genetics, bioinformatics, theoretical physics,
statistics, or a related eld. Review of applications is
ongoing. Please send your CV, a brief description of
your research experience and interests, and a list of three
references to dbweissman@gmail.com.
Emory University is one of the world's leading research
universities, with a top-ranked program in Population Bi-
ology, Ecology, and Evolution, and opportunities for col-
laboration on-campus at the School of Medicine, School
of Public Health, and the CDC, and across town at
Georgia Tech. Emory is located within a green neigh-borhood in the city of Atlanta and oers a high quality
of life.
People from underrepresented backgrounds are espe-
cially encouraged to apply. Emory University is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action employer.
Thank you, Daniel Weissman Assistant Professor
Physics, Associated Assistant Professor of Biology
Emory University http://weissmanlab.github.io Daniel
Weissman <dbweissman@gmail.com >
FRankfurt ComparativeGenomics
Job Announcement ref. #12-22006
PostDoc Position in Comparative Genomics
The Hiller Lab at the LOEWE Center for Translational
Biodiversity Genomics (TBG) in Frankfurt, Germany is
looking for an ambitious Postdoc to apply and develop
new comparative genomic methods.
The Project
The project combines the development of new compara-
tive genomic methods to uncover key genomic dierences
with large-scale analyses to link phenotypic adaptations
to genomic dierences, which is a central goal in the
genomics era. Powerful computational methods are
fundamental to gain novel insights through compara-
tive genomics and our lab has developed several ap-
proaches to address the phenotype - genotype question
(https://github.com/hillerlab/). We aim at expanding
our methods repertoire by detecting new \types" of
relevant dierences, such as genomic changes in non-
coding RNAs and gene duplication events. New and
existing approaches will then be applied to vertebrate
genomes, including new assemblies generated in our lab,
to reveal the genomic underpinnings of phenotypic dif-
ferences. The postdoc is expected to work closely with
other lab members and to capitalize on a wealth of com-
parative data for several hundred vertebrate genomes
(http://genome.senckenberg.de/).
Our lab
The mission of our group is to understand how nature's
fascinating phenotypic diversity has evolved and how
it is encoded in the genome. Work in the lab includes
sequencing and assembly of reference-quality genomes,
genome alignment and annotation, development and
application of comparative genomic methods to discover
dierences in genes and cis-regulatory elements, and88 EvolDir April 1, 2022
the use of statistical approaches to link phenotypic to
genomic changes [1-9].
Our lab is part of TBG (https://tbg.senckenberg.de/)
and Senckenberg Research Society, and is based near
the city center of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. TBG
provides access to cutting-edge computational (HPC
clusters, genome browser) and lab infrastructure to se-
quence genomes. English is the working language in
our lab. Senckenberg and TBG provide exible working
hours, an annual special payment, a company pension
scheme, the Senckenberg badge for free entry in mu-
seums, the zoo, botanical garden and Palmengarten,
a leave of 30 days per year, and a subsidy job ticket
for public transport. Frankfurt is a vibrant and highly-
international city at the heart of Europe that combines
a skyscraper skyline with ample park and green areas.
Requirements
Applicants should have a PhD degree in bioinformat-
ics/computational biology, computer science, genomics
or a related area, and a strong publication record. Solid
programming skills in a Linux environment and expe-
rience with shell scripting and Unix tools are required.
Previous experience in comparative genomics is an ad-
vantage.
Place of employment: Frankfurt am Main
Working hours: full time (40 hours/week)
Type of contract: initially for 2 years, but funding is
available to extend it further
Salary and benets: according to the collective agree-
ment of the State of Hesse
(pay grade E13 100%)
The position is fully funded and should ideally start as
soon as possible.
The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r
Naturforschung who supports equal opportunity of men
and women and therefore strongly invites women to
apply. Equally qualied handicapped applicants will be
given preference.
How to apply
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job announcement (ref.#12-22006), by e-mail
to Michael Hiller (michael.hiller@senckenberg.de) and
recruiting@senckenberg.de.
The application should include the reference number
of this job announcement, a CV with publication list
and contact information for at least two references, a
summary of previous research experience (max 1 page),
and copies of certicates, transcripts and grades.The application deadline is April 5th, 2022.
For more information please contact Prof. Dr. Michael
Hiller, michael.hiller@senckenberg.de or visit https://-
tbg.senckenberg.de/personen/hiller/ . Recent publica-
tions
[1] Blumer et al. Gene losses in the common vampire
bat illuminate molecular adaptations to blood feeding.
Science Advances, 2022
[2] Roscito et al. Convergent and lineage-specic ge-
nomic dierences in limb regulatory elements in limbless
reptile lineages. Cell Reports, 38(3):110280, 2022
[3] Jebb et al. Six reference-quality genomes reveal evo-
lution of bat adaptations. Nature, 583, 578-584, 2020
[4] Huelsmann et al. Genes lost during the transi-
tion from land to water in cetaceans highlight genomic
changes associated with aquatic adaptations. Science
Advances, 5(9), eaaw6671, 2019
[5] Hecker et al. Convergent gene losses illuminate
metabolic and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GothenburgU 3yr
ComputationalEvolution
What: The postdoc will work in a project funded by the
Swedish Research Council (Vetenskapsr >1
2det) on the
interactions between herbivores, vegetation and climate.
The project will focus on quantifying the importance of
herbivory on vegetation structure under natural condi-
tions and the potential for this herbivory driven vegeta-
tion changes to inuence global climate. This work will
build upon knowledge of natural mammalian diversity
patterns from the PHYLACINE database, on estimated
mammalian equilibrium densities and on the dynamic
vegetation model LPJ-GUESS.
Where. The position will be based in Gothenburg Uni-
versity in Sweden. The project team also involves collab-
orators from Lund Univerity, Sweden and Senckenberg
Research Institute, Germany.
Deadline: April 30thApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 89
More details: Full advertisement can be
found here https://web103.reachmee.com/ext/-
I005/1035/job?site=7&lang=UK&validator=-
9b89bead79bb7258ad55c8d75228e5b7&job id=24578
Applicants are more than welcome to contact me with
questions (soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se or @FaurbySoren)
-
S >1
2ren Faurby Gothenburg University and GGBC
@FaurbySoren
S >1
2ren Faurby <soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se >S >1
2ren
Faurby <soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se >
INRAE France PopulationGenomics
18-month Postdoc position in Population Genomics of
an emerging plant parasitic nematode
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc to work
on the population genomics of the emerging plant para-
sitic nematode Meloidogyne enterolobii as part of the
AEGONE project. AEGONE (for Adaptability, Origin
and Genome Evolution of an emerging plant-devastating
nematode) is co-funded by ANR in France and DFG in
Germany. This project is a collaborative eort between
Institut Sophia Agrobiotech (ISA) in France and the
Julius K >1
2hn-Institut (JKI) in Germany. ISA, which
is the hosting lab, is a leader in root-knot nematode
genomics and was the coordinator of the rst genome
sequencing project for a plant parasitic animal. The
associated lab, JKI was the rst to discover and de-
scribe the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne enterolobii
in Europe and hosts a unique collection of populations
for this species.
*Main goals We aim at studying the relationship be-
tween genome variations and phenotypic variations as
well as adaptability in the emerging root-knot nema-
tode M. enterolobii. The postdoc will mainly have to
identify and describe genome variations in this species
using highly accurate long reads (PacBio Hi-Fi) for 10
populations. This will include: - SNP and short indels -
Structural Variations (insertions, deletions, inversions,
translocations, copy number variations)
The 10 M. enterolobii populations will then be geno-
typed using the variations discovered and compared to
each other to evaluate their relatedness and distance at
the whole-genome level. Experiments already performed
at JKI on these 10 M. enterolobii populations allowed
demonstrating they show phenotypic variations in termsof virulence and ability of parasitize 20 monitored crop
plants. The next step of the project will consists in mon-
itoring whether some genome - phenome co-variations
can be identied in this species.
*Skills The candidate must: * be skilled in comparative
and population genomics * have good experience in writ-
ing papers and communicating research in conferences *
be familiar with Linux working environment * have a
taste for teamwork
*Work environment This part of the project will take
place in the Genomics & Adaptive Molecular Evolution
(GAME) team at Institut Sophia Agrobiotech (ISA) in
the French Riviera. GAME is a young and international
team mainly using bioinformatics and biostatistics to
study adaptive genome evolution in various species in-
teracting negatively or positively with plant health. ISA
combines scientists and facilities from INRAE, Univer-
sit >1
2C >1
2te d'Azur and the CNRS. This project will
benet from the support of ISA bioinformatics & ge-
nomics (BIG) platform with local skills in bioinformatics,
computational power and storage available.
*When The position is available immediately and must
start no later than the 30th of June 2022
*Salary Gross monthly salary will be between 2,800
-3,000 EUR depending in experience and qualications.
*How to apply Send an e-mail to eti-
enne.danchin[@]inrae.fr and attach a CV and
motivation letter. Do not hesitate to use the same
address to inquire about the position.
More information here:
https://edanchin.org/job-opportunities/18-month-
postdoc-position-in-population-genomics/ Etienne
G.J. Danchin http://edanchin.org Institut Sophia
Agrobiotech INRAE - Univ. C >1
2te d'Azur - CNRS
400 route des Chappes, BP 167 06903 Sophia-Antipolis
Cedex France
http://www.paca.inra.fr/institut-sophia-agrobiotech
Tel. +33 492 386 402 Fax. +33 492 386 587
Etienne Danchin <etienne.danchin@inrae.fr >
INRAE Toulouse
ResourceAllocationModelling
18 months post-doctoral position on the evaluation of
genetic trade-os based on resource allocation modelling90 EvolDir April 1, 2022
(application to the reproductive eort in domestic female
sheep)
*Job environment The INRAE research unit Gen-
PhySE (https://genphyse.toulouse.inra.fr/) located near
Toulouse, France. The overall research objective of the
lab is to better understand the genetics and physio-
logical processes underlying phenotypes of livestock in
their environment. Research activities range from fun-
damental investigation of the structure and functional
organization of genomes to nalized questions on live-
stock breeding and designing more sustainable livestock
production systems. The post-doc will take place in
a research group focusing on sheep and goat genetics
(GeSPR team, Animal Genetics INRAE division). The
post-doc will also be co-supervised by the Mathematics
and Numerics INRAE division (MathNum), which will
bring a methodological expertise for the calibration and
exploration of complex models. The postdoc will also
benet from a steering community including experts
on resource allocation modelling (other INRAE units,
Roslin Institute, UK).
*Description To breed animals adapted to climate change
and to agroecological conditions, researches in animal
breeding need to better understand and model the poten-
tial trade-os between productivity traits (e.g. growth
rate, reproductive output) and adaptive capacities (e.g.
body reserves) of animals. To address this challenge, the
resource allocation theory developed in evolutionary bi-
ology oers an interesting framework but the validity of
this framework is still uncertain in livestock species. In
particular, the hypothesis that genetic variation exists
in terms of resource allocation between functions has not
been directly tested. Resource allocation models then
provide a tool to describe and to quantify an individual's
resource allocation strategy, for instance through a com-
bination of resource allocation parameters. However,
estimating the genetic variability among such param-
eters that are not directly observable, is challenging
compared to others traits that are directly measured
(e.g. body weight, milk yield). The post-doc will tackle
these challenges by applying an energy allocation model
that has been developed by the host team in meat sheep
to experimental data from a prolic meat sheep reared
in two contrasting herd environments (controlled ver-
sus variable). Specically, the postdoc will focus on
the potential trade-o between ewe reproductive eort
during pregnancy and lactation (energy expenditure to
ensure lambs growth and survival until weaning) and
the maintenance of maternal condition (ewe body re-
serves). The two main objectives of the post-doc are
(i) to integrate the resource allocation model into quan-
titative genetic methods, and (ii) to estimate genetic
parameters of the trade-o between reproductive eortand maternal condition.
*Qualications - A PhD in animal science/ecology
or/and mathematics/statistics applied to biology -
Strong quantitative skills with experience in statistical
and mathematical analyses - Experience in mechanistic
or process-based models - Knowledge of quantitative
genetics theory - Abilities to deal with large datasets -
Writing and communication capacities
*Conditions Postdoctoral contract duration: up to 18
months (depending on starting date) Starting date: from
1st of April and at latest the 1st of July 2022 Gross
salary: about 2500-2700 euro /month according to the
level of experiences
*Contact persons (for application or any question):
Fr ed eric Douhard (frederic.douhard@inrae.fr) Ronan
Tr epos (ronan.trepos@inrae.fr) Dominique Hazard (do-
minique.hazard@inrae.fr)
Application deadline: May 15th 2022 More informa-
tion here: https://jobs.inrae.fr/en/ot-14563 Frederic
Douhard <Frederic.Douhard@inrae.fr >
InstMicrobiology Czechia
MitochondrialMetabolicEvolution
Postdoctoral position in Tetrahymena metabolic evolu-
tion - Institute of Microbiology, Czech Republic
We are hiring a postdoctoral researcher to study the
evolution of mitochondrial metabolism in Tetrahymena
using molecular genetic tools. The group studies
metabolism in mitochondria and chloroplasts in a variety
of protistan models: https://www.alga.cz/en/c-874-jan-
janouskovec-s-group.html .The postdoctoral researcher
will focus on understanding mitochondrial phospholipid
synthesis in Tetrahymena thermophila by using subcel-
lular protein localization, gene knockout, subcellular
fractionation, stable isotope labelling, and other meth-
ods. We are looking for someone with previous expe-
rience in genetics on Tetrahymena (or other ciliates or
single-celled eukaryotes), an outgoing personality, and
passion for cell biology.
We study cell biology, evolution and ecology of protists
and algae (e.g., Janouskovec et al., 2017, PNAS 114(2);
Janouskovec et al., 2017 Curr Biol 27(23); Janouskovec
et al., 2019, eLife 8, e49662). Our Centre is located
in a picturesque location in the middle of a UNESCO
Biospheric Reserve and hosts several internationally-
known microbiology groups. The Centre has a friendly,April 1, 2022 EvolDir 91
collegial atmosphere, a high proportion of international
researchers, and English as the language of work. We
have outstanding facilities for biological research and
strong ties with universities abroad: the position may
include work at the University of Southampton and
University of Cambridge in the UK. The position is
available for three years.
The applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and
the position remains open until lled. Interviews will
begin in April 2022. To receive more information or ap-
ply for the position (include a short CV with two referee
contacts) please contact Jan at janouskovec@alga.cz
Jan Janouskovec Group Leader, Institute of Microbiol-
ogy, Czechia
Jan Janou ^Akovec <janjan.cz@gmail.com >
Juneau Fish eDNA
The Genetics Group and the NOAA Alaska Fisheries
Science Center is recruiting an NRC postdoc to
use eDNA as an early warning tool to detect range
shifts of important sh species in the Arctic. The
candidate will work closely with research scientist
Diana Baetscher to develop metabarcoding meth-
ods for presence/absence and quantication. The
position is funded for two years with potential op-
portunities to extend. The application period ends
on May 1. Please contact us if you're interested.
http://nrc58.nas.edu/RAPLab10/Opportunity/-
Opportunity.aspx?LabCode=26&ROPCD=-
260368&RONum=C0688&ROBaseMode=R101
KielU IKMB
HostMicrobiomeSystems
The Groussin-Poyet research group at the Institute
of Clinical Molecular Biology (IKMB) at Christian-
Albrechts-University of Kiel (CAU) oers 1 Postdoc po-
sition in *multi-omics investigations of host-microbiome
systems.*
We are looking for postdoctoral fellows to lead multi-
omics investigations of host-microbiome systems in hu-mans. The project will leverage multiple datasets gener-
ated from healthy and clinical cohorts to ask questions
about the evolution and function of the microbiome
within people or between host populations. A particular
focus will be made on the gut microbiome, gut bacterial
isolate and human host omics data that are being gen-
erated as part of the Global Microbiome Conservancy
initiative (1,2). We will discuss together on how to best
design a project that pursues this research agenda but
that also materializes your own ideas and ts with your
career objectives.
1. Groussin*, Poyet* et al., Cell, 2021.
doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2021.02.052 2. http://-
microbiomeconservancy.org/ *Your prole:*
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with
a Ph.D in microbiome, genomics, host-microbe inter-
action, microbiology, ecology & evolution, or a related
eld. Candidates with an M.D. interested in pursuing
an academic path are greatly encouraged to apply. A
strong background in bioinformatics, including experi-
ence with the analysis of NGS data is desired. Good
programming skills in R and/or Python/Perl/C++ are
required, and experience with high-throughput compute
environments is advantageous. Additional expertise in
systems biology and/or statistics is a plus. Fluency in
English (especially for oral communication and paper
writing) is required.
*What we oer:*
This is a xed-term position for two years, with pos-
sibility of renewal. Weekly working time is 100% of
a full-time position (currently 38,50 hours per week).
Working part-time is possible. Salary will be, depending
on qualications, according to the German salary scale
E13 TV-L.
The UKSH has been certied as a family-friendly insti-
tution and is committed to further improve the compat-
ibility of work and family life. The University Medical
Center Schleswig-Holstein is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. People with disabilities will be given preference
in case of equal qualications.
*Required Application Materials:*
When applying, please submit the following items: a
CV (max. 5 pages) and a cover letter (max. 2 pages).
If possible, include in your cover letter the names and
contact info for a maximum of 3 references.
*Additional information:*
For questions about the position or to apply, please con-
tact Prof. Mathieu Groussin at m.groussin@ikmb.uni-
kiel.de The application package can also be submitted
here: https://jobs.uksh.de/job/Kiel-Postdoc-position-92 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Multi-omics-investigations-of-host-microbiome-
systems-Schl-24105/782251501/ The application
deadline is 23.03.2022. Please mention the reference
number 13586 in your application and in the subject
email.
Please contact recruiting@uksh.de for any further ques-
tions.
More information about UKSH and the IKMB, is
also available at www.uksh.de/karriere and https://-
www.ikmb.uni-kiel.de/. More information is also avail-
able at:
https://www.ikmb.uni-kiel.de/research/-
junior-research-groups/genomics-and-
functions-host-microbiome-systems https://-
microbiomeconservancy.org/ Mathieu Groussin
W2 Professor Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology
(IKMB) University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel,
Germany University of Kiel
Co-founder - Global Microbiome Conservancy http://-
microbiomeconservancy.org/ @mgroussi
Mathieu Groussin <m.groussin@ikmb.uni-kiel.de >
KU Leuven PolarSeascapeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN POLAR SEASCAPE
GENOMICS at KU Leuven, Belgium - REMINDER
The KU Leuven invites scholars to apply for a 12 months
postdoctoral fellowship on polar seascape genomics at
the Division 'Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Con-
servation' (KU Leuven).
Marine science oers excellent prospects for a career,
especially during the United Nations Decade of Ocean
Science for Sustainable Development 2021-2030. We are
looking for a motivated and internationally oriented col-
league with an excellent research record. The research
prole focuses on advanced expertise in seascape ge-
nomics to investigate research questions at the interface
of marine evolution and global change biology. More
specically the candidate will determine the ecologi-
cal and evolutionary interdependency of populations by
studying the genetic structure, connectivity and adap-
tation of polar sh in the environmental context of the
Southern Ocean and Arctic Sea. You genotype sh taxa
with high throughput genomic tools and analyse con-
nectivity and adaptation patterns with individual- and
population-based statistical models. The study will re-sult in advice on the conservation management of polar
sh tting in a context of ocean-wide resource manage-
ment. The position is funded by the Federal Government
and the European Union. The appointment is expected
to start on May 1, 2022.
The Division 'Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Con-
servation' hosts 10 professors active in ecology, evolution
and ecosystem services. The Laboratory of Biodiver-
sity and Evolutionary Genomics (LBEG) focuses on
marine ecology and evolution, and collaborates closely
with RBINS sta, associated to the project. Research
assignment
The candidate is expected to further develop the analysis
of high-throughput (RADseq) genotypes with bioinfor-
matic and biostatistical tools, and prepare high quality
scientic publications. You will be supported in your
research by colleagues skilled in molecular tools and
bioinformatic pipelines, and in the oceanographic and
biological context of polar research.
The candidate: * Is an excellent, internationally oriented
researcher and strengthens a research programme at the
forefront of seascape genomics. * Brings complementary
and/or new expertise in ecological and evolutionary ge-
nomics. * Strengthens current research lines by working
closely with KU Leuven sta. * Publishes at the highest
scientic level in top 5% journals of her/his research
eld. * Is an inspiring team player and can work inde-
pendently. * Supervises master students. * Strives for
excellence in research and provides a contribution to
the international research reputation of LBEG.
Education The candidate has the option to take part
in the teaching program at the KU Leuven to a limited
extent.
Service Scientic, societal and internal services are an
integral part of the assignment.
Requirements * PhD in Marine Science, Oceanography,
Molecular Ecology or related disciplines. * Intermediate
to excellent programming skills. * Experience with polar
environments is an asset. * An indisputable research
integrity. * The quality of your research is proven by
publications in leading international top 5% journals.
* International research experience is an important ad-
vantage. * Your spoken and written English is excellent.
The ocial administrative language at KU Leuven is
Dutch.
Oer * We oer full-time employment in an intellectu-
ally challenging environment. KU Leuven is a research-
intensive, internationally oriented university that carries
out both fundamental and applied scientic research.
Our university is highly inter- and multidisciplinary fo-
cused and strives for international excellence. * We oerApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 93
state-of-the-art access to data banks, statistical exper-
tise and computational facilities. * KU Leuven oers
a remuneration according to the grade of postdoctoral
fellow, and free public transport or a bike allowance
between home/work. * You will work in Leuven, a
historic, dynamic, sustainable and vibrant city located
in the heart of Belgium, within twenty minutes from
Brussels. Leuven is located less than two hours from
Paris, London and Amsterdam.
Interested? More information on the content of
the job can be obtained from prof. Filip Volckaert
(KU Leuven) at phone +32 16 32 39 72 and email
lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be. The website of KU Leu-
ven - LBEG is https://bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/lbeg . Ap-
plication format and deadline Please apply no later
than March 31, 2022 via the online application tool
(KU Leuven academic jobs - https://www.kuleuven.be/-
personeel/jobsite/jobs/60097059). We request a moti-
vation letter, CV, summary of your PhD thesis, a short
commentary on your 5 most signicant publications,
evidence of accomplished skills
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Lausanne Switzerland
ArthropodEvolution
Postdoctoral position on comparative evolutionary ge-
nomics of arthropods
The group of Prof. Waterhouse proposes a Postdoc-
toral position in arthropod genomics and biodiversity
focused on bioinformatics methods development and
applications to understand the evolution of diversity
at molecular, genomic, and/or organismal levels at the
Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of
Lausanne, Switzerland. The postdoc will join a dy-
namic team working mainly on modelling gene evolution
- gene function interactions through evolutionary and
functional genomics in insects and other arthropods.
We are seeking to recruit a recent* PhD graduate in
informatics, bioinformatics, computational biology,
evolutionary genomics, or related elds. The candi-
date's qualications and experience should equip them
with the ability to innovatively develop and applydata analysis workows to explore the evolution of
arthropod biodiversity. The candidate will take on the
leadership of a project in the group that has to date
focused on developing methods to quantify how genes
and genomes evolve and will also involve assessing how
such changes are linked to functional and organismal
diversity (For example see: https://academic.oup.com/-
mbe/article/39/1/msab352/6459179 and https://-
genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/-
s13059-019-1925-7 ). She or he will thus need to be
familiar with programming in Python, ideally also with
experience of workow development (e.g. Snakemake),
knowledge of working in R is also a plus. No prior
knowledge of arthropod biology or taxonomy is required,
just an enthusiasm for genomics, evolution, biodiversity,
and a curiosity to learn. The candidate should have a
strong ability to work as part of a team as the project
is inherently collaborative in nature. * Funding rules
require the candidate to have obtained their PhD no
more than 40 months prior to the start date.
The link for the UNIL jobs portal: https://bit.ly/-
3GvSRji DEADLINE: 31.03.2022
Please note that the SNSF denes the position of 'Post-
doc' as no more than ve years since obtaining a doctor-
ate (i.e. since the date of the doctoral thesis defence).
Informal enquiries can in the meantime be
made by writing to Prof. Robert Waterhouse,
Robert.Waterhouse@unil.ch
\\Robert M. Waterhouse O0o{ www.rmwaterhouse.org
\" SNF Prof & SIB Group Leader Univ. Lausanne +41
21 692 41 05 @rmwaterhouse <https://twitter.com/-
rmwaterhouse >ORCiD <https://orcid.org/0000-0003-
4199-9052 >
Robert Waterhouse <robert.waterhouse@unil.ch >
London EvolutionDNAmethylation
An open post-doctoral position in the laboratory of Dr.
Alex de Mendoza at Queen Mary University of London
(United Kingdom). This is a European Research Coun-
cil funded position under the project METHYLEVOL,
aimed at understanding the evolution of DNA methyla-
tion in animals and other eukaryotes. This position is
for 2 years, with expected extensions up to 4 years.
For this position previous experience in molecular bi-
ology and developmental biology techniques is highly
desirable, including genetic manipulation, injection and94 EvolDir April 1, 2022
rearing aquatic organisms (e.g. cnidarians, zebrash,
marine invertebrates). Alternatively, experience in func-
tional genomic techniques is also welcome (e.g. ATAC-
seq, bisulte sequencing). Some bioinformatics experi-
ence would be a plus, but we can train the candidates
and oer ample support on this aspect. Plenty of op-
portunities for gaining expertise in functional genomics.
The goal is to understand the role of DNA methyla-
tion in invertebrates, following previous work of the
laboratory that has challenged long held expectations
in the eld, see latest publications here: https://-
www.demendozalab.com/publications The link to the
position is:
https://www.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/vacancies/items/-
5631.html Applications close on March 24, but feel free
to get in touch if you cannot make the deadline. Start
could be from May-June 2021 onwards.
All you will need is your CV and a cover letter. No
nationality restrictions.
Potential candidates are encouraged to get in touch with
a.demendozasoler@qmul.ac.uk to discuss your interest
in the post and the project.
Alexandre de Mendoza Soler
<a.demendozasoler@qmul.ac.uk >
Madrid EvolBioengineering
Postdoc in evolutionary bioengineering at the Polytech-
nic University of Madrid
We are seeking an enthusiastic postdoctoral researcher
who is passionate about understanding and engineering
genetic circuits in bacterial cells. Within this project,
you will optimise existing genetic parts|to work on
dierent cellular hosts that is, to shape their context de-
pendency behavior. You will be using directed evolution
methods to nd robust and ecient parts and setting up
modular cloning techniques for their high-throughput
assembly into genetic circuits. The project you|will
join aims at applying synthetic biology approaches to
agriculture, for which developing reliable genetic circuits
in environmental species is at the core.|
The candidate will have a doctoral degree in synthetic
biology, bioengineering, directed evolution or similar.
The position requires expertise in molecular biology
methods, gene editing, assembly protocols and testing|
procedures (e.g. ow cytometry, RNA quantication,etc). Knowledge about laboratory automation, and the
use of automation facilities, would be a bonus. You
will have expertise in working with bacterial|species,
preferably Pseudomonas protegens.There will be am-
ple opportunity for career development, including the
possibility to co-supervise students, apply for funding,
engage in teaching and present your work on interna-
tional conferences. The position oers a competitive
salary according to experience with all the benets of
the Spanish National Social Security System, compris-
ing generous sick/maternity/paternity leaves and health,
unemployment and retirement insurances. The post is
available from September 2022 (or earlier) for 3 years.
The candidate will join the Centre for Plant Biotechnol-
ogy and Genomics (CBGP), a mixed research centre sup-
ported by the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM)
and the National Research Council (CSIC). You will
join an inter-laboratory project and will be expected to
liaise with the groups of Elena Caro,|Alejandro Couce
and|Angel Go ni-Moreno.|
How to apply: Interested candidates please send a
single PDF le with a motivation letter and a CV
including publication list to Angel Go ni-Moreno (an-
gel.goni@upm.es). Candidates short-listed for interview
will be additionally requested to provide the names and
complete contact information of two references. The
post will be open until a suitable candidate is found -
early applications are thus encouraged. Please include
the word \EMMA" in the subject line.
Dr Alejandro Couce Evolutionary Systems Genetics of
Microbes Lab Centre for Plant Biotechnology and Ge-
nomics (CBGP, UPM-INIA) Polytechnic University of
Madrid, Spain
phone: +34 910679195 j website:
short.upm.es/EvolSysGen
A Couce <a.couce@upm.es >
MichiganStateU InsectEvolution
PostDoctoral Position in Insect Ecology and Science
Education
Applications are being accepted for a postdoctoral re-
search position to work on an NSF-Funded project in
urban moth ecology and insect science education. The
project aims to bring moth biology research into elemen-
tary and middle schools, and to help students conduct
research projects so they can better understand the roleApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 95
and positioning of moths in urban habitats. The re-
search associate will work with Dr. Peter White and Dr.
David Stroupe at Michigan State University. This is
intended to be a three-year position, pending successful
annual performance reviews after the each year. The
start date is exible, but ideally will commence on May
16th, 2022 and will be \in-person"
Overview: Moths are a key taxonomic group across
urban and peri-urban landscapes. Along with being key
components of local food webs, they can also play a role
as nocturnal pollinators. In addition to their positive
impacts, a handful of species are capable of causing
ecological and agricultural damage, often as defoliators
in their larval stage. Despite how ubiquitous moths are
across a wide array of habitat types, and the impactful
role they can play in ecosystems, they often go unnoticed
by the general public. In this project we aspire to bring
the eld of moth biology into the public sphere by pro-
viding opportunities for school-aged children to engage
in self-directed moth ecology research projects. We will
design and implement citizen-science-like materials to
help students (i) learn about the ecological importance
of moths, (ii) construct their own homemade moth traps,
(iii) decide on what scientic questions they would like
to investigate, (iv) conduct their own moth trapping, (v)
explore their trapping data to make conclusions about
their scientic questions and (vi) disseminate their re-
sults to the local school community, and online via our
Moth-Ed project website. We will partner with a set
of teachers to co-develop our curriculum and to run
curriculum testing.
From an educational-perspective, there are few oppor-
tunities in elementary and middle-school for students
to engage in authentic scientic research. In part, this
is due to the structure of elementary and middle-school;
teachers often have a wide spectrum of content to teach
across many subject areas and can only dedicate a nite
amount of time to science. Another signicant limiting
factor, however, is the dearth of ready-to-implement
science-focused curricular materials that provide guid-
ance around helping students participate in science prac-
tices. We often think of school-aged children as being
ill-equipped to conceive of and carry-out their own sci-
entic investigations, and yet, we are quick to recognize
their creativity and outside-of-the-box thinking. Here,
we aim push the envelope and deliberately position stu-
dents as scientists, giving them agency to pose their
own questions and make their own discoveries.
Position Responsibilities: The postdoc will work closely
with the project team on the design, development, pilot-
ing and testing of user-friendly insect surveying research
protocols. The postdoc may also be involved with design-
ing and piloting an automated moth-identication pro-gram, using machine-learning techniques. The postdoc
may play a role in synthesizing student moth-capture
data and disseminating aggregate data in peer-reviewed
publications. We expect scholarly publications to arise
from this project both in the realm of insect-ecology, and
in the realm of K-5 education research. Wherever possi-
ble, the postdoc will participate in manuscript planning,
data analysis, drafting manuscript sections, submitting
to appropriate journals, attending professional meetings,
and responding to manuscript reviewer comments.
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement: All quali-
ed applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, citizenship, age,
disability or protected veteran status.
Required Degree: Doctorate in biology, entomology,
biology education, or education
Minimum Requirements: - Excellent writing skills and
a record of producing peer-reviewed publications. -
Experience with inclusive and constructivist teaching
pedagogies. - A set of skills that would help in managing
and coordinating a study at a national scale. - An ability
to work with and handle live and dead insects, particu-
larly moths. - Experience identifying insect specimens.
- Knowledge of html and use of web-based technologies.
Additional Desired Qualications: - A knowledge of
the Next Generation Science Standards and K-12 biol-
ogy curriculum, particularly relating to insect biology
and/or ecological processes. - Experience working with
K-12 teachers. - Experience developing training work-
shops. - An understanding of agency-based education
approaches.
Required Application Materials:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MuensterU EvolutionaryPsychiatry
Research Associate (gn*) Job ID: 3679 (*gn=gender neu-
tral) We are looking for you to join the Mental Health
Clinic as soon as possible on a project-limited basis until
10/31/202496 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Full-time, remuneration according to TV-L E13, depend-
ing on qualications and assignment of duties.
The Universities of Bielefeld and M  ^A>^A1
2nster have
set themselves the goal of empirically investigating the
topic of individualization in changing environments in
an interdisciplinary discourse between life sciences, hu-
manities and social sciences (project InChangE). To this
end, researchers from biology, health sciences, philos-
ophy, psychology, medicine and psychiatry, economics
and sociology are working together and are funded by
the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. We are looking for
creative and curious postdocs to support us in this very
interdisciplinary endeavor. One of the 6 projects relates
to genetic, epigenetic, and immunological predisposition
factors as well as diverse factors of social environments
and behaviors through bioinformatics modeling. A ma-
jor goal of the specic research project related to this
advertised position is to decipher how these risk factors
contribute to the development of mental illnesses such
as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and depression.
Your area of responsibility: Focus of the job: data
analysis of complex datasets within an evolutionary
framework, in close cooperation with the Laboratory for
Functional Genomics in Psychiatry (Prof. Ziller). Sup-
port in the area of multimodal data analysis of genetic,
epigenetic and transcriptome data from patients. Ob-
taining individual-based data from animal-based studies
from other research groups involved in the project.
Desirable qualications and experience: Completed stud-
ies in the natural sciences as well as a PhD; Motivation;
Good overview of basic biology, especially immunobiol-
ogy; Experience in the eld of data analysis; Experience
in basic biological research on mental disorders is an
advantage
We oer you to work at the Department of Mental Health
in an interdisciplinary team of psychiatrists, biologists
and bioinformaticians across dierent research groups.
One research focus is to better understand the role of
the immune system in the development and progression
of mental illness.
If you have any questions, please contact Prof.
Bernhard Baune and/or Prof. Joachim Kurtz:
Bernhard.Baune@ukmuenster.de; joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de.
We are looking forward to receiving your application
via our Karrieportal (https://career5.successfactors.eu/-
careers?company=universi19) in German or in English
(including the above mentioned reference number) with
all relevant information (cover letter with a short descrip-
tion of your previous work as well as applied methods
and a complete CV) until 16.03.2022.Muenster University Hospital is one of the leading hos-
pitals in Germany. Such a position is not only achieved
through size and medical success. The commitment of
each individual is important. We need your commit-
ment to be able to do great things for our patients,
even in small ways. To this end, we oer you many
opportunities so that you yourself can continue to grow.
UKM supports the compatibility of work and family
and has therefore been certied as a family-conscious
company since 2010. In principle, there is the possibility
of part-time employment. Applications from women are
welcomed; within the framework of legal regulations,
women are given preference in hiring. Severely disabled
persons will be given special consideration if they are
equally qualied.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Biodi-
versity Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueerstr.
1, 48149 Muenster, Germany
Phone (secretary): + 49 251 83 21638 Phone (direct):
+ 49 251 83 24661 Fax: + 49 251 83 24668 Room:
109 joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de http://www.uni-
muenster.de/Evolution/animalevolecol/kurtz.shtml
DFG Research Training Group GRK 2220 EvoPAD
https://www.uni-muenster.de/EvoPAD/ DFG SFB-
TRR 212 NC3 https://www.uni-bielefeld.de/fakultaete
n/biologie/forschung/verbuende/sfb nc3/
\Kurtz, Joachim" <joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de >
\Kurtz, Joachim" <joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de >
NewYorkCity
HumanPopulationGenetics
The Raj Laboratory at the Albert Einstein College of
Medicine in New York city is recruiting several moti-
vated postdoctoral fellows with interest and expertise
in any of the following areas: (1) Population and evo-
lutionary genetics (2) genome-wide association studies
and polygenic risk scores in populations of diverse an-
cestries, in large-scale datasets (3) Gene-environment
interactions (4) Cancer and public health genetics (5)
Bioinformatics / Machine learning.
Research focus: Our lab investigates the contribution
of common and rare genetic variation on phenotypic
variation in diverse global populations. We study how
genetics and gene-environment interactions shape indi-
vidual and population dierences in disease risk andApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 97
outcome. We use population, quantitative, evolution-
ary and functional genetics approaches to answer broad
questions in this area, with an interest in common com-
plex diseases as well as cancer. We also have a wet lab to
study the functional consequences of genetic variation.
We have several collaborative projects that use large-
scale genetic data, such as the UK Biobank, TOPMED,
AllofUs and the HCHS/Study of Latinos, as well as to
study the functional impact of genetic variation. We are
particularly interested in research questions that serve
the diverse community of our catchment area, the most
diverse county in the United States, the Bronx, NY.
Lab website: For more details on our lab and re-
search please visit www.srirajlab.com or https://-
einsteinmed.edu/faculty/16979/srilakshmi-raj/ . Ap-
plication Requirements:
1. Ph.D. or M.D. or equivalent degree, and a publica-
tions record from training.
1. Prior research experience in bioinformatics and ge-
netics, quantitative and computational skills, and ex-
perience with large- scale genetic and health datasets
(e.g. Biobanks). Experience with population genetics is
strongly preferred.
1. An interest in understanding the genetic basis of
population health disparities is strongly preferred.
To apply: Please email your CV and a short cover
letter summarizing your experience, along with the
contact information of two references to: srilak-
shmi.raj@einsteinmed.org addressed to Srilakshmi Raj
Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Genetics, Department of
Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New
York, NY
Research environment: The Albert Einstein College
of Medicine (https://www.einsteinmed.edu) provides a
highly engaging, interactive and productive academic
environment for research scientists and scientists in train-
ing. Prospective members will enjoy joint weekly lab
meetings within the Department of Genetics, and will en-
gage in work-in-progress seminars, journal clubs, trainee
events, workshops and other professional and social
events within the Department of Genetics, the Einstein
Cancer center and throughout the school. The Price
Center for Genetic and Translational Medicine, where
our lab is situated, is a modern research building in
the heart of the campus with state-of-the-art research
facilities and amenities.
Lab Location: The Einstein College of Medicine is lo-
cated in a residential area in the northeast corner of New
York City with an easy commute to Manhattan and the
suburbs of Westchester County. We oer competitive
salary and benet packages with optional postdoctoralhousing on campus.
The Scientic Community: Among the top tier of the
nation's medical schools to receive NIH funding, Albert
Einstein College of Medicine oers a highly interactive
and stimulating academic environment for scientists in
training. Additionally, candidate's research will bene-
t from the highly interactive environment within the
Gottesman Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative
Medicine, the Department of Genetics, Developmental
and Molecular Biology, the Cancer Center and through-
out the college. We are located in a pleasant residential
area in the northeast corner of New York City with an
easy commute to Manhattan and the suburbs of Westch-
ester County. We oer competitive salary and benet
packages with optional postdoctoral housing on campus.
Srilakshmi Raj <srilakshmi.raj@einsteinmed.edu >
NewYork DeptHealth
LymeDisFuncEvolution
Postdoctoral positions in Lyme disease and other tick-
borne diseases
Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of
Health Albany, New York, USA
The Lin lab at the Wadsworth Center of the New York
State Department of Health is recruiting postdoctoral
fellows to study host-pathogen interactions of Lyme dis-
ease and other tick-borne diseases in multi-institutional,
collaborative projects. We are particularly interested
in dening the mechanisms of transmission and persis-
tence by Lyme disease bacteria and other tick-borne
pathogens in reservoir host animals. Prior experience
in tackling host-pathogen interactions using any of the
following approaches/elds is desired: bacterial genet-
ics, host immune responses, phylogenomics, or vector
biology.
Representative publications of our group https://-
tinyurl.com/yipinlinpubs include: Lin et al. Proc. Biol.
Sci. 2022; Hart et al. PLoS Pathog. 2021; Lin et al.
Trends Parasitology 2020; Marcinkiewicz et al. Infect.
Immun. 2020; Lin et al. ACS Infect Dis. 2020; Tufts
et al. Mol. Microbiol. 2019; Marcinkiewicz et al. Cell
Microbiol. 2019; Hart et al. PLoS Pathog. 2018; Hart
et al. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2018.
The Lin lab values diversity and inclusivity, and fosters
an academic/research environment where professional
growth and distinct career choices are appreciated. Mo-98 EvolDir April 1, 2022
tivated and ingenious trainees are encouraged to pursue
independent projects. The Wadsworth Center, located
in Albany, NY, is the country's most comprehensive
state public health laboratory, with a sta of 700 that
includes over 100 doctoral-level scientists. The Center
provides a dynamic research atmosphere focused on in-
fectious, genetic, and environmental diseases and their
impact on human health.
To apply: Please submit a CV (up to 3 pages); a letter
summarizing research interests, experience, and goals
(up to 1 page); and the names and contact information
of three references to: Dr. Yi-Pin Lin PhD, Research
Scientist IV, E-mail: Yi- Pin.Lin@health.ny.gov
Lab website: https://www.wadsworth.org/-
research/laboratories/yi-pin/lin-laboratory &
https://www.albany.edu/sph/faculty/yi-pin-lin
koloko@amnh.org
NewYorkU AbuDhabi
AdaptiveEvolution
Post-doctoral Associate - Adaptive evolution in invasive
species - New York University Abu Dhabi (Center for
Genomics and Systems Biology)
Description
The New York University Abu Dhabi Center for Ge-
nomics and Systems Biology (NYUAD-CGSB) is a well
established research cluster focused on the use of global
or \systems" level approaches to address the organiza-
tion and function of biological systems at multiple lev-
els: cells, organisms, populations and ecosystems. The
NYUAD-CGSB is seeking a Post-doctoral Associate
to conduct research on adaptive evolution in invasive
species, using the red palm weevil (Rhynchophorus fer-
rugineus) as a model system. The red palm weevil is
a pest of the date palm and it has a negative eect on
the cultivation of all species of palms across the globe.
This position will fall under the supervision of NYUAD-
CGSB's director,Dr. Stephane Boissinot, Professor of
Biology and P.I. of the NYUAD Evolutionary Genomics
Laboratory.
The Post-Doctoral Researcher will combine -omics ap-
proaches and eld experiments to (1) determine the
role of population structure, demography and hybridiza-
tion in shaping genetic diversity in invasive and na-
tive populations of weevils; (2) determine the genetic
bases of adaptation in invasive populations; (3) linkgenotypes and phenotypes across levels of organization
among populations adapted to dierent habitats. Candi-
dates must have a strong background in various -omics
approaches (genomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics,
metagenomics). Since data and samples will be collected
in populations from both the invasive (Middle-East, Eu-
rope, South Asia) and native (South East Asia) ranges,
candidates must have an interest in eld work and a
taste for travel.
The NYUAD-CGSB has access to state of the art equip-
ment for sequencing, microscopy and high-throughput
screening and well-equipped core facilities for conduct-
ing any kind of chemical or biological analyses. The
candidate will be part of a team of 5 Post-doctoral As-
sociates in the research group of Prof. Boissinot, who
are working on a diversity of research projects focused
around adaptive evolution and the evolution of genomic
structure and function.
To be successful in this role you MUST possess the
following to be considered:
PhD in Biology from an accredited university (completed
on or before 1 September, 2022) A strong publication
record with rst-author experience Experience in -omics
approaches Expertise in population genetics Strong in-
terpersonal skills with the ability to liaise with external
stakeholders, collaborators and students.
Previous experience in the following is DESIRABLE
but not essential:
Experience in working with insects
Experience in insect physiology Experience in eld re-
search Ability to lead and conduct multiple, possibly
divergent, research projects simultaneously Mentoring
of undergraduate students in a research setting Abil-
ity to plan, allocate, and monitor research budgets for
projects
This position will begin September 01, 2022 as a two-
year contract, renewable depending on funding avail-
ability and performance. Note that a later starting
date is possible. The role comes with an attractive
salary and benets package, including housing, med-
ical insurance, annual home leave allowance and (if
relevant) dependent school fees; salaries are tax free
in the UAE. Questions regarding specics for this po-
sition may be directed tostephane.boissinot@nyu.edu.
All applications MUST be submitted through Interfo-
lio (https://apply.interfolio.com/103942). Applications
should include a 1-2 page cover letter that must respond
to the required and desired experiences described above,
and a copy of a current CV; any publications listed in
the CV should have DOI or hyperlinks provided. The
cover letter should also describe the relevance of theApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 99
candidate's experience for the position.
The deadline for application is Sunday, 15 May, 2022, at
23:59 EST. Review of applications will commence there-
after, with interviews conducted in early June. Only
those applicants selected for interview will be contacted.
About the CGSB
The Center for Genomics and Systems Biology (CGSB)
at New York University Abu Dhabi was established to
provide a nexus for cutting-edge life sciences research
in the United Arab Emirates, with world-class facili-
ties and resources to promote innovative advances in
genomics and systems biology. The Center fosters and
enhances the research and training missions of NYUAD,
where undergraduate students, graduate students, and
postdoctoral scientists engage in research across dis-
ciplines, facilitated by advanced instrumentation and
computational support for high-throughput data collec-
tion, visualization, and analysis. The NYUAD-CGSB
operates in partnership with its sister center, NYU Bi-
ology's CGSB in New York, in an open organizational
framework that enables transformative collaborative
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NewZealand StickInsectGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow in New Zealand stick insect ge-
nomics
We are seeking an enthusiastic and driven Postdoctoral
Fellow to join a research project investigating the ge-
nomics of successful asexual reproduction in stick in-
sects.
Theory predicts that asexual species should rapidly go
extinct, yet they are ubiquitous in nature and some-
times long-lived. Previous research looking for signs of
'genomic meltdown' in asexual species has found little
evidence of this occurring. We hypothesize that asexual
species have used a suite of strategies to adapt their
genomes to the challenges of asexual reproduction. Ap-
plying comparative genomic methods to New Zealand
asexual and sexual stick insects, we hope to reveal what
these adaptations are and how they have evolved. Our
research will address key questions on the evolution of
dierent reproductive strategies.This project will include the collection and analysis of
genomic data to test our key hypotheses. This will in-
clude whole genomes, resequencing, transcriptomic and
epigenomic data. The assembly of multiple, high-quality
genomes will be an important rst step in the project.
These genomes will then be used to investigate the ac-
tivity of transposable elements in sexual and asexual
lineages, in conjunction with mRNA and microRNA se-
quencing. Epigenomic methods will be used to examine
regulation of gene expression.
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be responsible for partici-
pating in the design of experiments to achieve the goals
of the project. These responsibilities will also include
sample management, DNA and RNA extraction and
arranging sequencing. Data management and the imple-
mentation of bioinformatics pipelines will be important
component of the position. The Postdoctoral Fellow will
be expected to lead the writing of scientic publications
and present ndings at conferences. Regular communi-
cation and collaboration with the two project Associate
Investigators (Julie Blommaert and Palacios-Gimenez)
is expected. The project includes funding to travel to
Friedrich-Schiller-Universtit >1
2t, Jena, Germany, to col-
laborate with Prof Palacios-Gimenez. The successful
applicant will also be expected to co-supervise a PhD
student, involved in other aspects of the project.
This position is full time for three years and is based at
our Auckland site. Project funding is from the Royal
Society of New Zealand Marsden Fund.
You will possess a PhD in genomics, molecular biology
or bioinformatics, at least some refereed publications,
inclusive of lead authorship. Ideally you will be a ex-
ible, pragmatic, self starter, able and enthusiastic to
manage the collection and analysis of data to achieve
project goals.
To apply follow this link:
https://careers.sciencenewzealand.org/landcare-
research/jobdetails/ajid/cWIv9/Postdoctoral-Fellow-
in-Insect-Genomics,46222.html Thomas Buckley
Research Leader, Systematics Manaaki Whenua -
Landcare Research Professor, University of Auckland
+64 9 574 4116 buckleyt@landcareresearch.co.nz
Please consider the environment before printing this
email Warning: This electronic message together with
any attachments is condential. If you receive it in error:
(i) you must not read, use, disclose, copy or retain it; (ii)
please contact the sender immediately by reply email
and then delete the emails. The views expressed in
this email may not be those of Landcare Research New
Zealand Limited. http://www.landcareresearch.co.nz
Thomas Buckley <BuckleyT@landcareresearch.co.nz >100 EvolDir April 1, 2022
NortheasternU
MarineBivalveEvolution
Postdoc: NortheasternU Symbiont-host interaction in
marine bivalves
The Distel Laboratory <https://cos.northeastern.edu/-
people/dan-distel-2/ >at the Northeastern University
Marine Science Center <https://cos.northeastern.edu/-
marinescience >seeks a postdoctoral research scientist
to take a leading role in research exploring the
interactions between wood-eating teredinid bivalves
(shipworms) and their intracellular cellulolytic bacterial
endosymbionts. Shipworms provide an extraordinary
model system for investigating symbiont acquisition
and intracellular infection as both the hosts and their
symbionts can be cultured in the laboratory. Their
symbionts are a rich source of secondary metabolites,
including antimicrobials and antibiotics that likely
play a key role in shaping and defending their mi-
crobiomes. They are also the only marine animals
known to grow and reproduce with wood as a sole food
source. Hence the system has relevance to symbiotic
and pathogenic infection, drug discovery, microbial
community assembly, lignocellulose degradation and
biofuel/biomass conversion. The current project aims
to advance understanding of symbiont acquisition
and host-symbiont interaction at molecular, phys-
iological, and ultrastructural levels under funding
from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation <
https://www.moore.org/article-detail?newsUrlName=-
the-moore-foundation-invests- $140-million-to-explore-
aquatic-symbioses%3e >. The Distel lab is located at
Northeastern Universitys Marine Science Center in
Nahant, Massachusetts, on Bostons North Shore. The
anticipated term of the appointment is 1.5 years with
possibility of extension based on performance. The
appointment is anticipated to begin in the rst quarter
of 2022.
Responsibilities: The successful candidate will utilize
molecular techniques to (1) explore host-symbiont in-
teractions in the shipworm symbiotic model system, (2)
perform laboratory and eld research, (3) lead and assist
with the preparation of research papers and grant pro-
posals, (4) assist with overall management of the Distel
Laboratory and (5) help supervise and train students.
Ability to SCUBA dive within the AAUS framework is
desirable but not required.Qualications: A PhD or equivalent in microbiology,
bacterial molecular biology, or a related biological disci-
pline is required. Candidates must be able to undertake
substantial full-time research and scholarship under the
supervision of a senior scholar and must be knowledge-
able in one or more of the following disciplines: molec-
ular biology, genomics, bioinformatics, microbiology,
invertebrate zoology, symbiosis.
Preferred experience: Prior experience in the following
areas will be especially valuable: bacterial genetic en-
gineering, genomic and metagenomic sequencing, com-
parative genomic analysis, in situ hybridization and
uorescence microscopy. Knowledge of lignocellulose
degradation (carbohydrate-active enzyme activity and
expression) is desirable but not required.
Position Type Research
Additional Information Northeastern University is an
equal opportunity employer, seeking to recruit and sup-
port a broadly diverse community of faculty and sta.
Northeastern values and celebrates diversity in all its
forms and strives to foster an inclusive culture built
on respect that arms inter-group relations and builds
cohesion. All qualied applicants are encouraged to
apply and will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, religion, color, national origin,
age, sex, sexual orientation, disability status, or any
other characteristic protected by applicable law.
To learn more about Northeastern Universitys commit-
ment and support of diversity and inclusion, please see
www.northeastern.edu/diversity To apply, please go to:
https://northeastern.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
en-US/careers/details/Postdoctoral-
Research-Associate R102480?locations=-
299650046df20101f1b8ea205a9c0000 Or
https://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=postdoctoral&l=-
Nahant%2C%20MA&vjk=121898054d27224e Daniel
L. Distel, PhD (He, Him, His) Director Ocean
Genome Legacy Northeastern University Marine
Science Center 430 Nahant Rd Nahant, MA 01908
(617) 373-2576 d.distel@northeastern.edu https://-
cos.northeastern.edu/people/dan-distel-2/ \Distel,
Dan" <d.distel@northeastern.edu >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 101
OriginsInst McMasterU
ExptOriginsOfLife
Postdoctoral Research Position in Experimental Astro-
biology and the Origin of Life
McMaster University is located on the Haudenosaunee
and Mississauga Nations traditional territories and
within the lands protected by the Dish with One Spoon
wampum agreement.
Description
The Origins Institute at McMaster University in Hamil-
ton, Ontario, Canada invites applications for a postdoc-
toral researcher position in experimental astrobiology
and the origin of life starting July 1, 2022.
The institute currently includes faculty, postdoctoral
researchers, and graduate students from the Faculties of
Science, Health Sciences, and Humanities. The institute
runs a Collaborative Graduate Program in Astrobiology,
involving 5 academic units and 6 graduate programs.
Facilities related to astrobiology research include the
state-of-the-art Origin of Life Laboratory, featuring the
unique Planetary Simulator, which provides an environ-
ment in which temperature, humidity, gas-composition,
pressure, and radiation can be controlled. Additional
origin of life infrastructure on campus and in mem-
ber laboratories includes a high-performance computing
cluster (SHARCNet), a Gas Chromatograph Isotope
Ratio Mass Spectrometer, and a High Performance Liq-
uid Chromatograph coupled to single quad MS and
uorescence detector.
Candidates must have completed a Ph.D. in a rele-
vant discipline by the start date for the appointment.
They must be able to demonstrate a vibrant research
program in astrobiology and the origin of life dened
broadly. They ideally possess experimental skills rele-
vant to prebiotic organic chemistry, nucleic acid chem-
istry, biophysics & lipid membrane research, or in vitro
molecular evolution and would be able to use the Ori-
gin of Life Laboratory and Planetary Simulator. They
should have the potential to make substantive service
contributions to the Origins Institute and university
communities and contribute actively to their equity, di-
versity, and inclusivity goals. The ability to mentor
students at the graduate and undergraduate levels to
help foster inter-laboratory research and communicate
eectively for public outreach are desirable traits. Theposition is funded fully for two years with the possibility
for extension.
McMaster University is a globally renowned institution
for higher learning and a research community committed
to advancing human and societal health and well-being.
Our focus on collaboratively exchanging ideas and ap-
proaches uniquely positions us to pioneer groundbreak-
ing solutions to real-world problems leading to a Brighter
World. The Faculty of Science works to create global
impact by advancing scientic discovery and knowledge
and promoting greater understanding. Our innovative,
interdisciplinary approach generates new methods and
insights, results, and lasting change.
Commitment to Inclusive Excellence
The diversity in our workforce is the core for our in-
novation and creativity and strengthens our research
and teaching excellence. In keeping with its ^ aon Build-
ing an Inclusive Community with a Shared Purpose,'
McMaster University strives to embody as values re-
spect, collaboration, and diversity, and has committed
completely to employment equity.
The University seeks qualied candidates who share our
commitment to equity and inclusion, who will contribute
to diversifying ideas and perspectives, and especially
welcomes applications from women; First Nations, M^ a e,
and Inuit Peoples; members in racialised communities;
persons with disabilities, including mental illness; and
persons who identify as 2SLGBTQ+.
We invite all applicants to complete a brief Diversity Sur-
vey, which takes approximately two minutes to complete,
through the McMaster University application submis-
sion portal. All questions are voluntary, with an option
to decline to answer. All information collected is con-
dential and will be used to support eorts to broaden
future applicant pool diversity and to promote a fair,
equitable, and inclusive talent acquisition process.
Job applicants requiring accommodation to participate
in the hiring process should contact the Oce of the
Dean, Faculty of Science at baileyd@mcmaster.ca to
communicate accommodation needs.
How to Apply
Complete applications must be input online at https://-
hr.mcmaster.ca/careers/currentopportunities/ (Faculty
Positions, Job 44254) to the attention of J. R. Stone,
McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton,
Ontario, L8S 4K1.
A complete application comprises: a cover letter (in-
cluding a statement regarding whether the applicant
has Canadian citizenship/permanent resident status);
a current Curriculum Vitae, including publications au-102 EvolDir April 1, 2022
thored or coauthored and presentations delivered by the
applicant; a research interests statement (500-word max-
imum); a list providing contact information for three
individuals who would be
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Paris SexChromosomeGenomics
Postdoc positions in evolutionary genomics of sex chro-
mosomes in Paris Saclay, France
The Giraud lab in Paris Saclay University, France, is
searching for two postdocs with experience in evolution-
ary genomics and bioinformatics to join us on a project
funded by an ERC advanced grant on the evolution of
sex chromosomes. We have shown that chromosomes
involved in sexual compatibility in fungi lacking male
and female functions can display stepwise suppression
of recombination beyond mating-compatibility genes
(Branco et al. PNAS 2017, Branco et al. Nat Com
2018). The post-doc fellow will use high-quality genome
assemblies, including polymorphism data, for study-
ing the patterns of recombination suppression in sex
chromosomes in various fungi and other organisms and
for identifying the evolutionary causes for stepwise re-
combination suppression. The project can also involve
theoretical modeling or experiments depending on the
post-doc fellow interests.
Applicants should possess demonstrated experience in
research topics related to evolutionary genomics, bioin-
formatics and genome evolution.
Applicants should have excellent bioinformatics skills
related to large genomic datasets, as well as knowledge
in evolution, population and/or comparative genomics.
Experience with pan-genome and/or ancient recombina-
tion graphs will be considered a plus. Great emphasis
will be placed on personal qualities such as creativity,
motivation and ability to work in a team. Candidates
should also have a good ability to conduct independent
research, take initiative, ask pertinent scientic ques-
tions, and work collaboratively. Female scientists are
especially encouraged to apply. The starting date could
be optimally around September 2022 but is exible.
The Department of Ecology, Systematics and Evolutionin Paris Saclay University has about 130 employees and
is active within research areas focused on ecology and
evolution, providing an excellent scientic environment.
It also oers state-of-the-art infrastructure, including
plant and fungus growth facilities as well as equipment
for molecular biology and bioinformatics. The depart-
ment is moving in a new building at the IDEEV (In-
stitute for Diversity, Ecology and Evolution) together
with two other departments in the eld of ecology and
evolution. The Paris Saclay University benets both
from the proximity of Paris and from a nice environment
outside Paris.
The initial appointment will be for one year, with the
possibility for renewal for up to three years. The
salary depends on experience. The starting date is
exible. If interested, please contact Tatiana Giraud
tatiana.giraud@universite-paris-saclay.fr. Provide a CV
and a brief statement of research interests and qualica-
tions, and arrange to have two letters of recommendation
sent.
Tatiana Giraud
Directrice de recherches CNRS Professeur au Coll >1
2ge
de France Membre de l'acad >1
2mie des sciences
B >1
2timent 360, 360 rue du Doyen Andr >1
2Guignier
Universit >1
2Paris-Saclay 91400 Orsay France
phone: +33 1 69 15 56 69 + 33 6 34 64 45 14 fax: +33
1 69 15 46 97
Avoid  >1
2REPLY ALL  >1
2: 1 e-mail 1 Mo sent to 10
persons = 190 g CO2 (1 km by car) , 33 emails per day
(daily average number of emails sent per pers.) = 33
km (source ADEME)
English: https://www.ese.u-psud.fr/en/team-
members/tatiana-giraud/ Francais: https://-
www.ese.u-psud.fr/personnel/tatiana-giraud/
@GenEcoEvo http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/ Tatiana
Giraud <tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >Tatiana Giraud
<tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >
PrincetonU
HummingbirdColorVision
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at
Princeton University invites applications for a postdoc-
toral research associate or more senior research position
to work in the Stoddard Lab to investigate humming-
bird color vision and sensory ecology. The postdoctoral
research associate will design and conduct color visionApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 103
experiments in the eld, with eldwork occurring for
several months of the year (primarily in late spring
and summer). Currently eldwork takes place at the
Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory in Gothic, Col-
orado. The ideal candidate will have experience with
animal color vision/psychophysics, behavioral experi-
ments, the design of optical equipment (for example,
LEDs, Arduino), RFID equipment, and eld biology.
The postdoctoral research associate will also be respon-
sible for analyzing data obtained from behavioral exper-
iments. Advanced programming skills (in R, MATLAB,
or Python, for example) are required, and the ideal
candidate will have a strong background in quantitative
methods and statistics (including Bayesian statistics).
Finally, the postdoctoral research associate will work
closely with other members of the lab and with collab-
orators (including molecular biologists and geneticists)
and will be responsible for leading a small team of re-
searchers in the eld. Thus, we seek a candidate with a
strong interest in interdisciplinary, collaborative science
who is also capable of taking on a leadership role in a
eld setting. The target start date is March, April or
May 2022 but there is some exibility.
The Stoddard Lab uses an interdisciplinary approach
to study animal coloration and morphology, with a
focus on birds and bird eggs. For recent examples
of research conducted by the Stoddard Lab, visit
www.marycstoddard.com . Required qualications:
* A PhD in biology or a related eld * Expertise in ani-
mal behavior, visual ecology, eldwork, statistics, and
computer programming * A very strong quantitative
background * Excellent written and oral communication
skills, shown by a strong publication record and presen-
tations at conferences * Excellent organizational, project
management, data analysis and data management skills
* Ability to conduct eldwork for several months of the
year and to lead a small team of researchers * A valid
driver's license (some driving is required during eld-
work) * A strong interest in conducting interdisciplinary
work as part of a collaborative team * A strong interest
in mentoring undergraduate and graduate students and
broadening participation in STEM
Strongly recommended qualications:
* Previous research on birds (especially hummingbirds),
color vision and psychophysics experiments * Experi-
ence with LEDs, optical equipment, spectrophotometers,
cameras, animal tracking software
The appointment is initially for one year, with the possi-
bility of renewal based on satisfactory performance and
funding. Salary is competitive and commensurate with
experience, and benets are included. This position
will be open until lled. This position is subject to theUniversity's background-check policy.
Applicants must apply online at https://-
www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/24841
and include a curriculum vitae, a one-page statement
of research experience and interests, and a cover letter
that includes names and contact information of three
references.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity/armative
action employer and all qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to age,
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, national origin, disability status,
protected veteran status, or any other characteristic
protected by law.
\Mary C. Stoddard" <mstoddard@princeton.edu >
QueenMaryU London
EvolutionSymbiosis
Evolution of symbiosis - Host immunity manipulation
as an adaptation for symbiosis
A Postdoctoral Research Assistant position is available
at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) in Dr
Lee Henry's group to investigating \Host immunity ma-
nipulation as an adaptation for symbiosis". This is a
BBSRC-NSF/BIO funded project that aims to under-
stand how host immune systems are modied, or manip-
ulated, to recognise and host benecial microbes, while
still resisting harmful pathogens. The project involves
state-of-the-art techniques in genomics and molecular
biology (e.g. RNAi, CRISPR), and experimentally ma-
nipulations of herbivorous insects (aphids) and their
symbionts.
We have shown that hosting benecial microbes results
in a sharp decrease in the expression of key immune
genes in aphids. In this project, the successful applicant
will answer the questions: do symbionts manipulate
host immune systems to establish in hosts, or have hosts
evolved a modied immune response to facilitate sym-
biosis? and do host's trade-o in their ability to harbour
benecial symbionts and resist pathogens?
An ideal candidate should have a PhD (or be close to
completion) in Evolutionary Biology, Genomics, Genet-
ics or a related eld. They should provide evidence
of expertise in lab skills in molecular biology. Alter-
natively, if candidates are more data-analysis oriented,
they should provide evidence of programming skills and104 EvolDir April 1, 2022
should be procient in transcriptome or genome anal-
yses. A proven track record of published research is
essential. Self-motivation, an ability to work as part of
a team and an interest in new research questions will
be fundamental to the position.
Queen Mary is one of the top research-led universities
in the UK and was ranked 9thamong the UK multi-
faculty universities in the Research Excellence Frame-
work (REF 2014). All postdoctoral researchers are part
of the QMUL Doctoral College, which provides sup-
port with high-quality training and career development
activities.
The post is full-time and available until 28thFebruary
2025. The start date would be 1thMay 2022 or as soon
as possible thereafter. The salary is in Grade 4, in the
range of 33,824 - 34,733 per annum, inclusive of London
allowance.
We oer access to a generous pension scheme, 30 days'
leave per annum (pro-rata for xed-term), season ticket
loan scheme and access to a comprehensive range of
personal and professionaldevelopment opportunities. In
addition, weoer a range of work life balance and family
friendly, inclusive employment policies, exible working
arrangements, and campus facilities including an on-site
nursery at the Mile End campus.
For information on what we do, please visit our lab web-
site: https://www.henry-lab.co.uk/ Before applying,
please contact Dr. Lee Henry ( l.henry@qmul.ac.uk ).
To apply, please go to the website below:
https://www.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/vacancies/items/-
6709.html
The closing date for applications is March 22nd, 2022.
Interviews will be held shortly thereafter.
Lee Henry Senior Lecturer Queen Mary University of
London School of Biological and Chemical sciences Mile
End Rd London E1 4NS
https://www.henry-lab.co.uk/ https://www.henry-
lab.co.uk/RiceU 2yr EvolutionaryBiol
EEB FACULTY FELLOW IN ECOLOGY & EVOLU-
TION: The BioSciences department of Rice University
(http://biosciences.rice.edu/) seeks to ll a Faculty Fel-
low position in ecology and/or evolution. The position
is a two-year appointment with a third year extension
possible, with a tentative start date of July 1, 2022.
Our prestigious EEB Faculty Fellow Program aims to
recruit outstanding postdoctoral researchers who merge
excellence in teaching and research. Fellows receive fac-
ulty status, employee benets, competitive salary, and
research funds for independent or collaborative research.
Collaborative interests with the existing faculty in the
EEB research area are a plus. Position duties include
independent research and teaching a three credit course
in the eld of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology per
year of employment (course topic depending on fellow
expertise and the needs of the department). Eligibility
requires a PhD conferral before July 1, 2022.
Application review will begin March 27th. The appli-
cation will include a curriculum vitae, a statement of
research interests, a statement of teaching interests, and
a statement of contribution to diversity, equity, and
inclusion. The research statement should outline the
candidate's research questions and motivation, previous
work, and future plans. The research statement does
not need to include a detailed plan for the research that
will be conducted during the Fellowship. The teach-
ing statement should describe the candidate's teaching
philosophy, experience, and future teaching interests.
The statement for diversity, equity, and inclusion should
describe how the candidate will contribute to diversity,
equity, and inclusion as a member of the Rice com-
munity, noting any relevant experience in this area if
applicable.
The application, along with contact information for
three people who can provide letters of recommen-
dation should be submitted via Interfolio here ap-
ply.interfolio.com/104371. Letters will be requested
from a subset of candidates following initial review.
For further questions please contact Dr. Amy Dun-
ham (aed4@rice.edu), Search Committee Chair. Rice
University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Action
Employer and values a diverse faculty. People from
groups historically excluded from STEM are encouraged
to apply.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 105
Lisa Evans <lre2@rice.edu >
SussexU
TransposobleElementsInPlants
A 2-year Royal Society-funded computational Postdoc
position to study interactions between TEs and their
host genomes in plants. Host is the Bousios lab in the
University of Sussex, UK.
Job Link: https://www.sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/-
research-fellow-computational-biology-7771 Our lab is
interested in understanding the interactions between
TEs and their host genomes in plants by focusing both
on mechanistic and evolutionary perspectives. Having
a strong background in bioinformatics, and based on
your interests, you will be leading projects that can
include i) the co-option of cis-regulatory motifs of TEs
by host regulatory networks in grasses, ii) the impact
of TEs in the function and evolution of centromeres in
Arabidopsis thaliana and related species, iii) the capture
of gene fragments by TEs and how this is linked with
pseudogenization of the donor genes and with genome
evolution in general. These projects involve UK-based
and international collaborators (e.g. Ian Henderson
from the University of Cambridge, and Brandon Gaut
from the University of California Irvine).
This is an excellent opportunity for a computational biol-
ogist wishing to apply their skills to elucidating the role
of TEs in fundamental processes of plant genomes. You
will have substantial experience working with large-scale
genetic/epigenetic data, genome-wide analysis, or pat-
tern discovery towards building identication method-
ologies. You will be able to develop research objectives,
contribute to grant applications, supervise the work of
others and act as team leader, present at conferences,
and prepare scientic publications. The position is sup-
ported by a grant of the Royal Society.
Please contact Dr Alexandros Bousios
alex.bousios@sussex.ac.uk for informal enquiries.
{ Alexandros Bousios, PhD Royal Society University
Research Fellow
University of Sussex jUK
alexandros.bousios@gmail.com jemail http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/bousioslab/ jwww http://-
infspire.org/jwww alexandros bousios jSkype
Alexandros Bousios <alexandros.bousios@gmail.com >SyracuseU MutalismCoevolution
Postdoc opportunity at Syracuse University
Posting: https://www.sujobopps.com/postings/91894
Description: The Segraves and Altho labs are seeking
to hire a postdoctoral fellow to study coevolution in
multispecies mutualism. A key challenge in biology is
to determine how the processes we discover in simple
systems translate to more complex systems. This is
particularly important for understanding the coevolu-
tionary dynamics of multi-mutualist communities and
how these communities assemble, function and are main-
tained. The successful candidate will use a synthetic
laboratory-based system of brewer's yeast to examine
how both abiotic and biotic contexts inuence the co-
evolutionary process in multi-mutualist communities.
The position is currently open and is a one-year re-
newable appointment for up to four years. Salary is
commensurate with NIH standards.
Please direct any questions to Kari Segraves (kseg-
rave@syr.edu).
Kari Segraves <ksegrave@syr.edu >
UAberdeen LandscapeGenetics
MSCA Individual Fellowship hosting oer -Comparative
landscape genetics in Aberdeen,Scotland
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/jobs/hosting/msca-
individual-fellowship-hosting-oer-comparative-
landscape-genetics-aberdeen The Lancaster research
group at the University of Aberdeen (UK) is seeking
a Marie Curie postdoctoral researcher/applicant to
lead on a landscape genetic datasynthesis project.
We aim to develop a database of landscape genetic
data and parameters across Eukaryotic (and possibly
Prokaryotic) species, and to use the datato address
major questions about the comparative biogeography
of spatial genetic processes.
We have developed a draft proposal which we will share
with interested applicants, and our group has a recent
a track record of success in securing MSCA funding.106 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Interested parties, please contactlesleylan-
caster@abdn.ac.ukto discuss and plan further project
details, and to plan the development of a competitive
bid for funding.
See https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
HDhZBekAAAAJ&hl=enfor examples of our recent
publications.
Dr. Lesley Lancaster School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Aberdeen Aberdeen, AB24 2TZ United King-
dom (+44) 01224274551
lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered
in Scotland, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar
Dheathain na charthannas cl >1
2raichte ann an Alba,
 >1
2ir. SC013683.
\Lancaster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >\Lan-
caster, Lesley" <lesleylancaster@abdn.ac.uk >
UAuckland
AlgorithmicPhylogenetics
Postdoc in Algorithmic Phylogenetics at the University
of Auckland
A postdoctoral position is available to work on a project
related to algorithmic foundations of phylogenetic net-
works. Such networks are used to represent and anal-
yse evolutionary relationships between entities such as
species, viruses, and cancer cells. A particular focus
of the project is the development of new parameter-
ized algorithms and other algorithms with performance
guarantee to reconstruct phylogenetic networks from
biological data. The position is for 18 months, to com-
mence in early 2023, and fully-funded by a Marsden
Fund Grant from the Royal Society of New Zealand Te
Ap arangi. The successful candidate will be based in
the School of Computer Science at the University of
Auckland.
Requirements. The successful applicant has a PhD de-
gree in computer science or mathematics, and a strong
background in theoretical computer science or discrete
mathematics. An interest in biological questions is de-
sirable, but not a strict requirement.
Application. To apply, please email your CV, a cover
letter including your motivation to apply for this po-
sition, a research statement (2 pages maximum), and
names and contact details of two referees to SimoneLinz (s.linz@auckland.ac.nz). Informal inquiries can
be directed to the same address. Applications will be
reviewed starting 15 April 2022 and continue until the
position is lled.
Dr Simone Linz School of Computer Science University
of Auckland s.linz@auckland.ac.nz
Simone Linz <s.linz@auckland.ac.nz >
UBern Eawag Paleolimnology
LakeVictoria
The IEE Division Aquatic Ecology & Evolution and the
Eawag Center for Ecology, Evolution, and Biogeochem-
istry in Kastanienbaum seek to recruit a
Postdoc in Quantitative Paleolimnology
The position is part of an SNSF funded project enti-
tled \20,000 years of evolution and ecosystem dynamics
in the world's largest tropical lake reconstructed from
sediment cores, fossils and ancient DNA". The overall
aim of the project is to understand the ecosystem and
evolutionary history of Lake Victoria, East Africa. The
goals for the postdoc are to help synthesize the results
from the project by integrating and interpreting diverse
time series that include multiple biogeochemistry prox-
ies along with organismal remains (e.g. zooplankton and
sh teeth). This unique data set has been developed
over the past 5 years by a large team of researchers, and
is based on a series of sediment cores that provide a
unique historical record of ecosystem dynamics of Lake
Victoria spanning the entire Holocene - a time period
that includes not only the emergence of a dramatic
radiation of cichlid sh but also the more recent human-
mediated ecosystem degradation that culminated in a
mass extinction of cichlids and a thoroughly changed
food web.
We are interested in candidates with expertise in quanti-
tative data analysis and an interest in the paleolimnology
of tropical lakes. The team of researchers involved in
the project includes paleolimnologists, ecologists, and
evolutionary biologists. The main data sources that
support the proposed work have been generated and are
ready for synthesis. Additionally developing own ideas
within the framework of the project is encouraged.
The position is based at Eawag's Center for Ecology,
Evolution & Biogeochemistry (CEEB), which is located
on the shores of Lake Lucerne and is a strong nucleus of
research groups aimed at integrating evolutionary biol-April 1, 2022 EvolDir 107
ogy, community ecology, and ecosystem science http://-
www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/index EN. The Post-
doc will interact with a diverse range of researchers
studying community ecology, evolutionary biology, eco-
logical genetics, ecosystem science, and applied environ-
mental science.
The postdoc project is jointly led by Blake Matthews
and Ole Seehausen and involves collaborations with
other research groups at Eawag, the University of Bern
(Institute of Ecology & Evolution, Institute of Geog-
raphy), the University of Basel, and the University of
Copenhagen.
Screening of applicants will begin immediately, and the
closing date is 31 Mar 2022.
Our research department has presence both at Eawag
and at Uni Bern IEE and oers an excellent work-
ing environment in which employees can contribute
their strengths, experience and ways of thinking.
Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core values of
our Department, and we are committed to ensuring
our workplaces reect those values. As such, we
strongly encourage applications from researchers iden-
tifying as a member of a historically marginalized
group. You can nd more information about us here
https://www.eawag.ch/en/department/shec/ and here
https://www.aqua.iee.unibe.ch/ Please contact Blake
Matthews blake.matthews@eawag.ch or Ole Seehausen
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
submit your application in one single pdf le that in-
cludes CV, motivation letter, copies of academic qual-
ications, and the names and contact information for
three references to Alexandra.depeyer@iee.unibe.ch
ole.seehausen@iee.unibe.ch
UBristol EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOC IN EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NOMICS/BIOINFORMATICS
We are seeking an experienced and energetic postdoc to
work on our Leverhulme Trust Research Project 'Evolu-
tion of a kin recognition system in social insects'. How
do altruistic individuals recognise social parasites? In
some bees, wasps and ants most individuals forgo re-
production to support the ospring of others. This
evolutionary conundrum is explained by kin selection,
where helping related individuals indirectly promotesthe helper's overall tness. However, this strategy is
vulnerable to exploitation. An ability to distinguish
kin from non-kin is therefore critical for social living
to evolve. By combining broad taxonomic sampling
with detailed neuroanatomical, genomic and functional
characterisation of the sensory structures underpinning
kin recognition, we are investigating the neural and
chemosensory adaptations that support this behaviour,
and the remarkable diversity of Hymenopteran social
systems.
What will you be doing?
This role will lead the genomics side of this project,
working together with other team members in the UK
and France. The work will include collating published
genomic data across Hymenoptera, and combining it
with newly sequenced genomes to perform phylogenetic
analyses of chemoreceptor genes. These analyses will be
informed, and combined, with data on neuroanatomical
traits.
You should apply if
The role will suit someone with experience in handling
large genomic datasets, genome assembly, annotation
and phylogenetic analyses, and excellent data handling
and organizational skills. You will be working with a
multidisciplinary team, so must have strong communica-
tion skills and an enthusiasm for understanding dierent
branches of biology.
FULL DETAILS: https://www.bristol.ac.uk/jobs/-
nd/details/?nPostingId=120702&nPostingTargetId=-
268598&id=Q50FK026203F3VBQBV7V77V83&LG=-
UK&mask=newuobext For informal en-
quiries please contact Dr Stephen Montgomery
(s.montgomery@bristol.ac.uk).
Dr Stephen Montgomery He/him
NERC/ERC Research Fellow School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Bristol
Email: s.montgomery@bristol.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)11739
41181 Twitter: @eohomo www.shmontgomery.co.uk I
am a friend and ally of the BAME and LGBQT com-
munities because I believe in equality for everyone.
Stephen Montgomery <s.montgomery@bristol.ac.uk >108 EvolDir April 1, 2022
UBrussels TropicalTreePopGe-
nomicsBioinformatics
A 2-year postdoctoral position on plant genome evo-
lution is available in the team of Prof Olivier Hardy
(http://ebe.ulb.ac.be/ebe/Hardy.html) at the Univer-
sity of Brussels (Universit e libre de Bruxelles), Belgium.
Context: The team is working on the evolution and
dynamics of African rainforest plants and its main re-
search topics include comparative phylogeography, pop-
ulation genetics, phylogenomics, seed and pollen disper-
sal, species delimitation. The postdoc will work on the
project \Genomic signatures of inbreeding depression
and mutation load in a threatened African timber tree",
funded by the F.R.S.-FNRS.
Project: The objective of the project is to study inbreed-
ing depression and the accumulation of a mutational
load in an inbred African timber species, Pericopsis elata
(Fabaceae), threatened by over-exploitation and suer-
ing from poor natural regeneration. The species has a
mixed-mating strategy (ca. half of the seeds result from
self-fertilization), an uncommon situation among tropi-
cal trees. In Central Africa, a steep westward decay of
genetic diversity suggests a recent range expansion. This
context provides an opportunity to study the impact
selng and range expansion on inbreeding depression
and genetic load. Whole-genome sequencing will be com-
bined with eld measurements of tness components
to (1) determine the degree of inbreeding depression on
seedling mortality and tree growth, (2) identify genomic
signatures of mutation load and inbreeding depression,
(3) infer the demographic history of populations from
population genomics signatures. Beyond its interest for
fundamental research, this study will also be of interest
for the conservation and sustainable management of P.
elata, whose decient regeneration must be compensated
by plantation, by identifying provenances with high t-
ness and by dening strategies to avoid the negative
impact of inbreeding depression and mutation load.
Postdoc research: The postdoc will conduct in particular
the genomic aspect of the project, including the genome
assembly of the species (150bp PE reads available, Min-
ION data to come), laboratory work for resequencing or
genotyping new individuals, genomic data analyses to
quantify genetic load and infer the demographic history
of the populations. Field missions in Africa might also
be organized.Required skills: The postdoc should have a strong back-
ground in theoretical population genetics/evolutionary
biology and bioinformatics, with experience in genome
assembly. Experience in \wet lab" molecular biology
is a strong advantage. Experience with tropical plants
would be a plus.
Where: The postdoc will work in Brussels, in the Evo-
lutionary Biology and Ecology unit, which is equipped
with a molecular platform. He/she will work in close
collaboration with Olivier Hardy and his team members
(currently 4 PhD students, 1 technician, MSc students)
as well as the team of Jean-Francois Flot for the genome
assembly aspect.
Conditions to apply: Candidates must have a PhD
obtained less than 8 years ago and cannot have been
residing in Belgium for more than 2 years in the past 3
years (conditions imposed by the fellowship).
Salary: The net monthly salary is 2 607 euro .
Starting date: The position is available immediately
and should ideally start no later than July 2022.
How to apply: Interested candidates should send to
Olivier Hardy (olivier.hardy@ulb.be) their CV and a
brief letter of motivation stating how their expertise ts
with the position, preferably before 11 April 2022. More
details about the project can be requested by potential
candidates.
Olivier Hardy Research Director from FNRS Evolution-
ary Biology and Ecology - CP 160/12 Universit e Libre
de Bruxelles 50 Av. F. Roosevelt 1050 Brussels Belgium
Tel: +32 (0)2 650 6585 email: olivier.hardy@ulb.be
Olivier Hardy <olivier.hardy@ulb.be >
UBualo EcolEvolBio
Exciting opportunity for an Ecological and/or Evolution-
ary Biology Postdoctoral Associate in the Department
of Biological Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences,
University at Bualo.
Job posting link: https://www.ubjobs.bualo.edu/-
postings/33804 The Santos Laboratory (https://-
arts-sciences.bualo.edu/biological-sciences/faculty/-
faculty-directory/scott-santos.html), recently relocated
to the University at Bualo, utilizes a variety of
molecular tools, computational approaches and eld-
and laboratory-based studies to examine the ecol-
ogy, evolution, genetics, physiology, and symbiosisApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 109
biology of a range of terrestrial and aquatic (both
freshwater and marine) organisms, including host- and
environmentally-associated microbiomes.
In the above context, three broad areas of current re-
search are:
- Phylogeography and physiology of microbiomes and
crustaceans from the anchialine ecosystem of the Pacic
Basin - Animal-microbial interactions via grazing or
symbioses - The genetic basis of coloration variation
and longevity in crustaceans
The successful candidate will have a chance to work
with existing, as well as generating novel, large-scale
datasets including genomic (DNA/RNA) resources. The
candidate will have the opportunity to collaborate with
researchers from multiple institutions and government
agencies on projects involving the above. The candidate
would also be expected to work with Dr. Santos on
developing research proposals to funding agencies such
as the National Science Foundation (NSF) in the above
areas. The Santos Lab has a history of having diverse
personnel and a multidisciplinary research program and
is interested in recruiting from dierent backgrounds to
continue this tradition.
The candidate should have a Ph.D. preferably in ecolog-
ical and/or evolutionary biology, population genetics,
physiology, computational biology, bioinformatics, or
microbiology. Experience in handling large datasets
(e.g., high-throughput sequencing data), programming
and scripting (e.g., Python, R), and familiarity with
UNIX/LINUX operating environments is preferred.
If you are interested, please submit your CV, names of
three references, and a brief (no more than 1.5-page)
cover letter outlining research interests and career goals
(including personal perspectives in diversity, equity, and
inclusion in the biological sciences). Applications will
be accepted until the position is lled.
Outstanding Benets Package Working at UB comes
with benets that exceed salary alone. There are per-
sonal rewards including comprehensive health and re-
tirement plan options. We also focus on creating and
sustaining a healthy mix of work, personal and academic
pursuit - all in an eort to support your work-life eec-
tiveness. Visit our benets website to learn about our
benet packages.
About The University at Bualo The University at Buf-
falo (UB) is one of America's leading public research
universities and a agship of the State University of
New York system, recognized for our excellence and our
impact. UB is a premier, research-intensive public uni-
versity dedicated to academic excellence. Our research,
creative activity and people positively impact the world.Like the city we call home, UB is distinguished by a
culture of resilient optimism, resourceful thinking and
pragmatic dreaming that enables us to reach others
every day. Visit our website to learn more about the
University at Bualo.
As an Equal Opportunity / Armative Action employer,
the Research Foundation will not discriminate in its em-
ployment practices due to an applicant's race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, na-
tional origin and veteran or disability status.
Minimum Qualications: - PhD (or MD) preferably
in ecological and/or evolutionary biology, population
genetics, physiology, computational biology, bioinfor-
matics, or microbiology conferred within the past ve
years.
Preferred Qualications: - Experience in handling large
datasets (e.g., experience genome-wide sequencing data),
programming and scripting (e.g., Python, R), and fa-
miliarity with UNIX/LINUX operating environments is
preferred.
Interested applicants should submit: - a CV - names
of three references - a brief (no more than 1.5-page)
cover letter outlining research interests and career goals
(including personal perspectives in diversity, equity, and
inclusion in the biological sciences).
Please do not send application materials directly to
the posting contact. Please use posting link (https://-
www.ubjobs.bualo.edu/postings/33804) for applying
to this opportunity.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
Scott R. Santos Empire Innovation Professor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalgary
TheoryGenomicsAdaptation
Yeaman Lab Department of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Calgary
I'm seeking to hire a postdoctoral researcher to use some
combination of individual-based simulations and/or com-
parative genomics to explore a consequential question110 EvolDir April 1, 2022
about the process of adaptation and how we study it.
Some potential areas of inquiry are outlined below but
alternative proposals for projects within this broad area
are strongly encouraged. The start date is exible and
funding is in place until July 31, 2023, with the possi-
bility of extension if additional funding is secured. This
position can be carried out as either a remote-work or
in-Calgary appointment.
Some potential projects:
- The eect of spatial structure and heterogeneous se-
lection on Linkage Disequilibrium, and how this aects
detection of signatures of selection
- Maintenance of variation under temporal + spatial
heterogeneity
- How genotypic redundancy and pleiotropy aect the
repeatability of adaptation
- How does pleiotropy aect evolvability?
Existing resources within the Yeaman lab:
- Comparative population genomic datasets with lots
of open questions remaining (lots of genomic data for
conifers, sunowers, parasitic nematodes)
- An ongoing study on repeatability of local adaptation
with genome-scale data for >25 plant species. Another
postdoc in our lab is already working on this and eager to
collaborate on incorporating GWAS and other datasets
to explore links between pleiotropy and involvement in
adaptation.
The position will run for 1+ years (CAD $55k salary +
benets).
TO APPLY: Please send a CV and a short description
of your interest in the position and any relevant research
experience to samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca, along with
the names and emails of three people I could contact
for reference letters. I will begin reviewing applications
on March 21st, but please contact me to check in if you
need to make a quick decision.
Samuel Yeaman <samuel.yeaman@ucalgary.ca >
UCyprus PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral research position in genomics and tran-
scriptomics at the University of Cyprus
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher to work
on two Cyprus Research and Innovation Foundation(RIF) projects in Alex Kirschel's lab at the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences at the University of Cyprus.
The projects \Leveraging ancestry to investigate the ge-
nomics of song and colour in birds" and \Continent-wide
genomics of hybridisation and speciation" involve col-
laboration with Associate Professor Bridgett vonHoldt,
an expert in evolutionary genomics and epigenetics at
Princeton University and Dr. Andrea Fulgione an expert
in evolutionary and computational genomics of plants
at Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research.
The role involves working on bioinformatics pipelines
and downstream genomics analyses of whole genome
sequences and ddRAD sequencing, working closely with
Dr. vonHoldt and Dr. Fulgione. Genomics analyses
include admixture mapping, GWAS, and RNAseq and
IsoSeq annotation of the transcriptome to examine gene
expression patterns associated with phenotypic charac-
ters important in speciation. Population genomics anal-
yses will include demographic inference, based on site
frequency spectrum and multiple sequentially Marko-
vian coalescent (MSMC) approaches, as part of an in-
vestigation into discordance between nuclear genome
and mitogenome phylogenies, while D statistics, and
landscape genomics approaches will also be used.
Requirements
A PhD in a related subject
Molecular lab experience in genomic library preparation
Prociency in R
Expertise in bioinformatics and command line
A good understanding of transcriptomics
Prociency in English
Desirable skills
Experience with demographic inference
First author publications in peer-reviewed scientic jour-
nals
Location
The position is based at the University of Cyprus, in
Nicosia, but is planned to involve a month-long visit to
Princeton to work closely with Dr. vonHoldt. It will
also involve manuscript preparation and dissemination
of results in scientic conferences as well as via other
outlets.
The positions are for an initial 12 months, extendable
up to 24 months, with a gross annual salary range of
euro 26,563.92 - euro 36,208.92 per annum.
How to apply
Applications for these positions are due by 30th AprilApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 111
Informal enquiries and applications, including a cover
letter, CV, details of two referees, and a list of publica-
tions, should be sent by email to:
Associate Professor Alexander Kirschel
Behavioural Ecology and Evolution Lab
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Cyprus
Alexander Kirschel <kirschel.alexander@ucy.ac.cy >
UEdinburgh
GenomicBreedingOfForages
Hi,
We are looking for a new post-doc colleague to work
with us on a project, \GenoForage: Genomic breeding
of forages".
The post is funded for 2 years by a leading plant breed-
ing organisation and The University of Edinburgh. We
will support you to develop your future options through
interactions with the HighlanderLab at The Roslin In-
stitute https://www.ed.ac.uk/roslin/highlanderlab The
work will include:
i) gathering and analysing existing and simulated data
to estimate additive and dominance genetic associations
between genomic markers and multi-trait phenotypes;
ii) analysing past genetic trends in means, variances,
and correlations for additive and dominance components
of genetic value, including inbreeding depression and
heterosis;
iii) developing a breeding strategy that will leverage
genomic data to shorten long breeding and development
times as well as to optimise crossing plans for total
genetic value, hence minimising inbreeding depression;
and
iv) interaction with the HighlanderLab, including other
research and development opportunities.
Apply: https://elxw.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/-
hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/-
CX1001/job/3761 Post details: https://-
uoe.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/jobdescriptionlibrary/-
EYDGLn 92YlBnp8gskrJpYEB 5yLua9nsa6MrOh4Tea6vw?rtime=
t1md1kUO2kg Contact gregor.gorjanc@roslin.ed.ac.uk
for any further clarication. You have to apply via the
link above.With regards!
University of Edinburgh Gregor Gorjanc, PhD The
Roslin Institute Group leader (Reader) Easter Bush
twitter: @GregorGorjanc EH25 9RG mail: gre-
gor.gorjanc <at>roslin.ed.ac.uk Scotland, UK web:
www.ed.ac.uk/roslin/highlanderlab Gregor Gorjanc
<gregor.gorjanc@roslin.ed.ac.uk >
UExeter EvolutionaryGenomics
The Fraser lab is looking to a Postdoctoral Research
Fellow to participate in the grant 'Genomic basis of con-
vergent evolution in the Trinidadian Guppy' (EU H2020
ERC Starting grant GUPPYCon ref 758382). This post
is available June 2022 to May 2023 with the possibility
of extension. The successful applicant will primarily be
involved in mapping ecologically important traits to the
genome.
The position will be on understanding the genetic archi-
tecture of traits that evolve rapidly and repeatably in
guppies. This will involve processing and analysing the
phenotypic and genomic data for quantitative genetics
breeding crosses already in-hand. Therefore, the appli-
cant should have experience and/or keen interests in
quantitative genetics, bioinformatics, and evolutionary
biology.
Application closing date: 17/04/2022 Start Date:
1/06/2022 (note this is an updated closing date) Salary:
The starting salary will be from 36,382 up to 43,434 on
Grade F, depending on qualications and experience.
Location: Exeter, Devon, UK
Application link: https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID=-
897153ZAZy&WVID=3817591jNg&LANG=USA
Please do not hesitate to contact me (Bonnie Fraser)
for more information at b.fraser@exeter.ac.uk
Google scholar page: https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=ZsXGWJQAAAAJ&hl=en \Fraser,
Bonnie" <B.Fraser@exeter.ac.uk >112 EvolDir April 1, 2022
UFlorida AvianPhylogenomics
Post-doc in avian phylogenetics
A post-doc position is available at the University of
Florida (Gainesville, Florida) to work with Rebecca
Kimball, Edward Braun, and the OpenWings consor-
tium (https://blog.openwings.org/). OpenWings is an
NSF funded project with the goal of estimating a phy-
logeny for over 10,000 avian species using ~5000 UCEs
(ultraconserved elements) and using that phylogeny to
address questions about avian evolution. Although the
postdoc will be based at University of Florida, there is
potential to visit the labs of other OpenWings PIs.
The postdoc will primarily be involved in data analysis
and writing of manuscripts. Candidates should have
completed a PhD (or will very soon) and have a good
knowledge of phylogenetics. Ideal candidates will have
experience in computational phylogenetics, experience
in managing and analyzing large phylogenetic datasets,
and be knowledgeable about avian systematics.
Questions and applications should be addressed to Re-
becca Kimball (rkimball@u.edu). Applications should
include: 1) a cover letter outlining your research experi-
ences, interests and career goals; 2) a c.v. including the
names and contact information for at least 3 references;
and 3) copies of up to 3 publications or manuscripts
in review. Applications received by April 8, 2022 will
receive the highest consideration but later applications
may be considered. Candidates should be able to begin
no later than August 2022.
\Braun,Edward Louis" <ebraun68@u.edu >
UFlorida LepidopteraGenomics
The Kawahara Lab at the University of Florida,
Gainesville, USA, is currently seeking a postdoctoral
fellow to conduct evolutionary genomics research on but-
teries and moths (Lepidoptera). Specically, the can-
didate will assemble and annotate short and long-read
genomes and conduct comparative analyses of sensory
gene-family evolution (vision, auditory, olfaction, etc.).
The project is for 2 years with additional years possibledepending on progress.
Required: 1) A Ph.D. in genomics and or tran-
scriptomics, 2) experience with computer program-
ming/scripting in Perl/Python/R etc., 3) familiar-
ity with high-performance clusters and bioinformatics
pipelines, 4) strong ability to write and communicate
in English. An interest in insects is desired, but not
required.
The successful candidate will work closely with stu-
dents, postdocs, and sta in the lab and lead projects
on gene-family evolution in butteries and moths. Re-
sponsibilities include data analysis, student training,
and publishing papers. Position available immedi-
ately. The Kawahara Lab welcomes all groups, re-
gardless of racial or ethnic background and encour-
ages underrepresented groups to apply. The Lab's
website (https://www.oridamuseum.u.edu/kawahara-
lab/) includes a working Code of Conduct docu-
ment (https://www.oridamuseum.u.edu/kawahara-
lab/lab-code-of-conduct/)
Tentative timeline (may change): April 1, 2022: Ap-
plication deadline April 4-April 8, 2022: Evaluation of
applications April 11-April 13, 2022: Short listed candi-
dates will be contacted for an interview April 20-April
27: interviews April 30: Deliberation and decision on
top candidate
Once a candidate has accepted the job oer, we will con-
tact all applicants to let them know about our decision.
Salary: $52,000.
To ensure full consideration please send a single pdf
by April 1, 2022, containing: 1) a cover letter (ex-
plaining your background and t for this position), CV,
and list of 3 qualied references, to Akito Kawahara
at kawahara@mnh.u.edu with the email subject line:
Postdoc KawaharaLab. Applications that do not follow
this format may not be considered. Any questions can
be addressed to Akito Kawahara at the email above.
kawahara@mnh.u.edu
UGuelph 8 Biodiversity
BIOSCAN: Transforming Biodiversity Science
An Exceptional Opportunity for Early Career Re-
searchers
The International Barcode of Life Consortium (iBOL)
is coordinating a series of research programs that willApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 113
register all multicellular species and activate a global
biosurveillance system within 25 years. BIOSCAN, its
current program, is an 8-year, $180 million eort in-
volving organizations in 40 nations. Its scientic work
focuses on three major themes - species discovery, inter-
actions, and dynamics. This work will be advanced by
exploiting the latest developments in DNA sequencing,
AI, data science, and machine learning. This scientic
work will support important applications designed to
improve the sustainability of agriculture, forestry, and
mining. Furthermore, BIOSCAN aims to ensure its
science inuences society through policy change. Fur-
ther details are available at https://bioscan.life/ Be-
cause BIOSCAN's activities are rapidly expanding in
Canada and internationally, this is the perfect time to
join an enterprise that will transform our understanding
of biodiversity and our capacity to manage it. We seek
early career researchers (ECRs) to join us in leading
Canada's contribution to BIOSCAN. If selected, you
will work with leading Canadian researchers in biodiver-
sity science, genomics, and computer science to achieve
BIOSCAN's mission. There will be strong opportunities
for cross-disciplinary training, for national and inter-
national travel, and for carrying out impactful science.
See following page for a detailed description of each
position.
Postdoctoral fellow, Hebert Lab (6 positions) Princi-
pal Investigator: Dr. Paul Hebert Summary: These
postdoctoral fellows will advance work on species dis-
covery in both Canada and internationally. As more
than 10 million specimens will be analyzed over the
next six years, those selected for these positions will
have access to unprecedented datasets in terms of both
geographic breadth and taxonomic coverage. Work will
involve the acquisition and analysis of long-read DNA
sequences generated by in-house PacBio Sequel and Se-
quel II platforms supported by a strong team of analysts.
Tens of thousands of species new to science will be reg-
istered, motivating the search for improved methods
to discriminate species and to speed their description.
Prior experience with arthropod taxonomy, especially
with Acarina, Collembola, Hemiptera, Hymenoptera,
or Lepidoptera is desirable. Candidates who couple
such expertise with a background in DNA barcoding,
metabarcoding, or molecular evolution will be ideal for
these positions.
Postdoctoral fellow, Hajibabaei Lab (1 position) Prin-
cipal Investigator: Dr. Mehrdad Hajibabaei Summary:
Our lab uses genomic methods to investigate biodiver-
sity and its changes at various levels of organization
and scales. This postdoctoral position will help ad-
vance the development of bioinformatic tools for the
rapidly advancing eld that uses metabarcoding andrelated approaches. This could involve the development
of new tools or improvement of existing tools to be more
scalable or user-friendly. Potential candidates should
be comfortable working in a command-line Linux envi-
ronment, and they should be familiar with a scripting
language such as Python or Perl. Candidates should
have experience in R and be comfortable performing
basic statistical tests in R or Python as required. An
interest in or experience implementing machine learn-
ing (ML) techniques using R or Python would be an
asset but not required. Any previous experience with
eld work, molecular biology work, analyzing metabar-
coding or other genomics data should be mentioned in
your application. Our lab provides an excellent training
environment for motivated candidates with a willing-
ness to learn or further develop prociency with script-
ing/coding/ML methods. Our team has expertise in
ecology-evolutionary biology, bioinformatics, and com-
putational biology. Your application should list your
technical skills (platforms, languages, programs) and
highlight relevant course work as well as how you have
applied your technical expertise to address problems in
the elds of ecology/ evolutionary biology/genomics or
related elds.
Postdoctoral fellow, Machine Learning Research Group
(1 position) Principal Investigator: Dr. Graham Taylor
Summary: We seek a postdoctoral fellow to be based in
the Machine Learning Research Group at the Univer-
sity of Guelph and aliated with the Vector Institute
for Articial Intelligence, a network of more than 600
AI researchers. You are motivated to advance AI/ML
research in the service of BIOSCAN's ambitious global
mission. You will have the opportunity to work on
projects that span computer vision and DNA sequence
analysis. For vision, this involves pushing the limits of
ne-grained recognition for taxonomic categorization
using techniques such as self-supervised
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHelsinki 9 ForestTreeGenomics
https://www2.helsinki./en/open-positions/-
postdoctoral-researchers-the-centre-of-excellence-
in-tree-biology The Centre of Excellence in Tree114 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Biology invites applications for
9 POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER POSITIONS in
the following research projects
- Project 1: Stomatal function and vascular connections.
The project aims at molecular-level understanding of
guard cell signalling and function in response to en-
vironmental stimuli. We will also address molecular
connections between stomatal regulation and vascu-
lar function (e.g., water transport, systemic signals).
We will utilize proteomics, biochemical and molecular
genetics approaches in Arabidopsis and physiological
measurements of stomatal and vascular parameters in
Arabidopsis and trees. Supervisors: Kangasj arvi, Sierla,
Shapiguzov, Waszczak
- Project 2: Stomatal developmental plasticity. The
aim of the project is to identify molecular mechanisms
controlling stomatal plasticity in Arabidopsis and trees
and to unravel how signal integration between pathways
mediating environmental information denes stomatal
numbers. Supervisors: Vat en, M ah onen
- Project 3: The role of energy metabolism in car-
bon source eects. The project aims at: (i) dissecting
metabolic and signalling interactions between chloro-
plasts and mitochondria and (ii) developing new meth-
ods for phenotyping photosynthesis and respiration (in-
cluding advanced chlorophyll uorometry, gas exchange
and oxygen microsensor approaches). Supervisors: Kan-
gasj arvi, Shapiguzov, Sierla
- Project 4: Morphogenesis and functionality of phloem.
Following our extensive previous work of phloem devel-
opment, we are taking various genetic and molecular
approaches to deepen our understanding of phloem at
cellular and functional levels. Supervisors: Helariutta,
M ah onen, H oltt a, Sierla
- Project 5: Cambial factors. Guided with a comparative
single cell transcriptome analysis of Arabidopsis, birch
and poplar cambia, the aim in this project is to identify
through molecular genetics key loci driving enhanced
growth and carbon sink in trees. Supervisors: M ah onen,
Kucukoglu-Topcu
- Project 6: Source-sink. By combining computational
modelling and experimentation, in this project, we will
explore how mutations aecting function of stomata,
conductive tissue or cambium and thus, consequently,
carbon sequestration in wood, will potentially feedback
to each other, and to other aspects in tree physiology.
Supervisors: H oltt a, M ah onen, Kucukoglu-Topcu
- Project 7: Distribution and role of open chromatin in
silver birch and Scots pine genomes. Open chromatin se-
quencing (ATAC-seq) allows identication of regulatoryactive regions of the genome. In this project, the aim is
to study regulatory genomic regions in conjunction with
gene expression and population genetic data from both
functional genetics and/or evolutionary point of view
depending on the interests of the candidate. Supervisors:
Pyh aj arvi, Saloj arvi
- Project 8: Population genomic studies in silver birch.
The CoE, together with the other projects associated
with it, will generate a massive amount of whole genome
sequencing data from birch populations across Eurasia.
Phenotype information will be available for a set of
families from a common garden experiment as well as
from a high- throughput phenotyping platform. The
data allows studies on demography, gene ow and local
adaptation, and facilitates identication of genotype-
phenotype associations. Based on the interests of the
candidate the project can involve also a component
of methods development for general population-level
inference. Supervisors: Saloj arvi and Pyh aj arvi
- Project 9: Genomic breeding. By combining our un-
derstanding of physiology and genetics in both trees and
Arabidopsis with the phenotypic and genomic data of
the current silver birch breeding population in Finland,
our aim is to develop a model for genomic breeding in
this economically highly important boreal tree species.
Supervisors: Nieminen, Pyh aj arvi, Saloj arvi
The postdoctoral researchers will be employed full-time
for a xed term of 2-3 years in one of the CoE research
groups with possibility of extension. The earliest start-
ing date is 1 April 2022.
We seek candidates who have completed a PhD in genet-
ics, molecular biology, biochemistry, (bio)physics, plant
biology or computational biology. Previous experience
with plants/trees is benecial but not necessary. In ad-
dition, the candidates shall have excellent written and
verbal communicational skills, and the ability to think
independently and creatively. They should be able to
conceive, execute and complete
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 115
UManchester MicrobialEvolution
From: Prof. Michael Brockhurst, University of Manch-
ester Email: Michael.brockhurst@manchester.ac.uk
Research Associate in Microbial Evolution Oxford Road,
Manchester
Job reference: BMH-018504
Location: Oxford Road, Manchester
Closing date (DD/MM/YYYY):22/03/2022
Salary: 33,309 to 40,927 per annum depending on rele-
vant experience
Employment type: Fixed Term
Faculty/Organisation: Biology, Medicine & Health
Division: Evolution, Infection and Genomics
Hours per week: Full time
Contract Duration: Fixed term from as soon as possible
until 30 April 2025
School / Directorate: School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking a Research Associate in microbial evolu-
tion as part of an interdisciplinary consortium investigat-
ing the evolutionary biology of antimicrobial resistance.
Rising antimicrobial resistance is a threat to global
health that is caused by microbial evolution and as
such requires evolution-informed solutions. This project,
funded by the Wellcome Trust, seeks to better under-
stand and thus predict the evolution of antibiotic resis-
tance in human bacterial infections using a combination
of population genomics and experimental evolution.
This position provides an excellent opportunity for am-
bitious researchers who are interested in applying ecolog-
ical and evolutionary approaches to combat antibiotic
resistance as part of an interdisciplinary team. You
will be embedded in a large community of microbial
ecology and evolution researchers in Manchester, and
will be encouraged to develop new lines of research and
collaborations within the consortium.
You will be based at University of Manchester within
the group of Michael Brockhurst, but will collaborate
closely with the groups of Steve Paterson and Joanne
Fothergill (Liverpool), James Chalmers (Dundee), and
Dylan Childs (Sheeld).You should have a PhD or equivalent in evolutionary
biology or evolutionary microbiology and experience of
microbial evolution research. Candidates with train-
ing in experimental evolution and / or the evolution of
antibiotic resistance are strongly encouraged to apply.
The School/Department is strongly committed to
promoting equality and diversity, including the Athena
SWAN charter for gender equality in higher education.
The School/Department holds a Silver Award which
recognises their good practice in relation to gender;
including exible working arrangements, family-friendly
policies, and support to allow sta achieve a good
work-life balance. We particularly welcome applica-
tions from women for this post. All appointment
will be made on merit. For further information,
please visit: https://www.bmh.manchester.ac.uk/-
about/equality/ Our University is positive about
exible working - you can nd out more here
< https://www.stanet.manchester.ac.uk/human-
resources/current-sta/leave-working-arrangements/-
exible-working/ >
Blended working arrangements may be considered
Please note that we are unable to respond to enquiries,
accept CVs or applications from Recruitment Agencies.
Enquiries about the vacancy, shortlisting and interviews:
Name: Prof. Michael Brockhurst
Email: michael.brockhurst@manchester.ac.uk
General enquiries:
Email: People.Recruitment@manchester.ac.uk
https://www.jobs.manchester.ac.uk/-
displayjob.aspx?jobid=21926 Michael Brockhurst
<michael.brockhurst@manchester.ac.uk >
UmeU MicrobialEvolution
We would like to send a reminder that Ume >1
2Univer-
sity's Excellence by Choice Postdoctoral Programme
is still accepting applications until April 3rd. This is
a unique opportunity for postdocs interested in topics
related to microbial research (there are currently 16
possible research areas). The program features an open
call where afterwards qualied postdocs develop their
own research plan with help from researchers at two
national Centres of Excellence - Ume >1
2Centre for Mi-
crobial Research (UCMR) and Ume >1
2Plant Science
Centre (UPSC). More details are shown below and at116 EvolDir April 1, 2022
the website:
https://www.ucmr.umu.se/ec-programme/1703-ec-
postdoc2022.html If you would like to apply and
are interested in the research area of predicting
microbial community evolution please contact Peter
Lind (peter.lind@umu.se) or collaborator Eric Libby
(eric.libby@umu.se) to discuss possible project ideas.
Thanks,
Peter Lind
\Ume >1
2University is currently implementing the "Ex-
cellence by Choice\ Postdoctoral Programme in Life
Science research to train outstanding young researchers
and stimulate cutting-edge research. As a collaboration
between the two national Centres of Excellence - Ume >1
2
Centre for Microbial Research (UCMR) and Ume >1
2
Plant Science Centre (UPSC) ' the programme aims to
encourage new synergies in Life Science with a focus on
molecular and translational research and to strengthen
world-class research activities in Ume >1
2. Patron for
the new programme will be Nobel laureate Emmanuelle
Charpentier, who discovered the CRISPR-Cas9 gene
editing technology during her time as a scientist and
group leader in Ume >1
2.
Several fellowships are open for outstanding postdoc-
toral candidates interested to do research in the highly
interactive and multidisciplinary research environments
of UCMR and UPSC. In the scope of the "Excellence
by Choice\ Postdoctoral Programme, we aim to recruit
in total 17 postdoctoral scientists through three rounds
of international calls.
In this rst round, ongoing now, up to six fellows will
be selected during the spring and expected to start their
projects in fall/winter 2022. The next call is planned
to be advertised towards the end of this year, with
supposed start in the beginning of 2023.
Deadline for application: April 3rd 2022
The programme is open to all nationalities. The "EC\
Postdoctoral Fellows will:
- Develop a collaborative project under supervision of
at least two PIs
- Obtain 2-year full-time fellowship exempt from tax
(600 000 SEK), as well as grants for project running
costs (300 000 SEK) and the fellow's career development
(20 000 SEK)
- Access to UCMR/UPSC-aliated core facilities and
technical platforms such as Chemical Biology Con-
sortium Sweden (CBCS), Protein Expertise Platform,
metabolomics, proteomics, X-ray, NMR (850-400 MHz),
Computational Analytics Support Platform (CASP) -a node in NBIS (National Bioinformatics Infrastruc-
ture Sweden), Ume >1
2Centre for Electron Microscopy
(UCEM) and Biochemical Imaging Centre Ume >1
2
(BICU) that form a node in the National Microscopy
Infrastructure (NMI)
- Participate in activities to strengthen networks and
collaborations in academics and industry
- Involve in a strong postdoc community with the
Umea Postdoc Society (UPS) which fosters networking
amongst postdocs, organizes social and career develop-
ment events
Qualication
Applicants should have a doctoral degree or a foreign
degree that is deemed equivalent in the eld relevant for
the position, preferably completed no more than three
years before the starting date of fellowship.
Candidates are encouraged to consider one of the project
ideas listed below. For further information please con-
tact the PIs of the considered project idea.
The candidates' merits and motivation for choice of
project idea will be assessed by a panel of UCMR/UPSC
researchers. A short list of applicants will then be re-
quested to submit a short research proposal based on
the chosen project idea, followed by invitation to an
interview."
Peter Lind <peter.lind@umu.se >
UNorthCarolina Charlotte
ElephantPopGenetics
The Rogers lab at UNC Charlotte is hiring a postdoc to
work on population genomics of Asian Elephants. We
are interested in the ways that structural variation and
transposable elements evolve in endangered species un-
der drastic reductions in population sizes. The postdoc
will be expected to help analyze the lab's population ge-
nomic data for duplications, deletions, rearrangements
and TEs. Additional projects on genome structure evo-
lution in other metazoans are encouraged, especially
when public data or collaborations are available.
Some experience with bioinformatic analysis of genome
sequence data and knowledge of programming is es-
sential. Statistics and population genetics expertise is
recommended. Postdocs must be less than 5 years post
PhD and must be available to start the position in the
Fall of 2022. Salary will follow NIH recommendations.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 117
The initial contract will be for 1 year, with the option to
renew for a second year. Subsequent years will depend
on available funding.
Applications should include a CV, a brief summary of re-
search interests, proposal for how their work will t with
the lab, and three references to be contacted on request.
Applications must be submitted through NinerTalent
(https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/40827). Applica-
tions will be reviewed in the order they are received.
Candidates are strongly encouraged to discuss their
research interests with Dr. Rogers before applying. (Re-
bekah.Rogers@uncc.edu)
The Rogers lab supports diversity in science. We
are committed to a positive working environment for
LGBTQ individuals, underrepresented minorities, and
women in science. An overview of the lab can be found
at evolscientist.com. Charlotte, NC is a diverse city
with an excellent symphony, theater, and performing
arts scene. Charlotte also oers a thriving arts scene and
live music in NoDa, excellent restaurants surrounding
the Downtown, and family-friendly programs in local
museums. Farm to table restaurants and farmers' mar-
kets are our forte. The cost of living is very aordable,
oering a comfortable lifestyle for postdocs.
Rebekah Rogers <rebekah.rogers@gmail.com >
UOtago LifeHistory SexualSelection
Seminal uid and life-history responses in mammals
We are seeking a Postdoctoral Research Fellow to work
on a new project funded by the Royal Society Te
Ap?rangi Marsden Fund, based at the University of
Otago, New Zealand. This project seeks to test how
seminal uid exposure during mating inuences a fe-
male mammal's subsequent life course, including her
growth, future fertility and lifespan. The project will
use a number of experimental approaches to test these
ideas in mice. Research in this project is expected to
intersect evolutionary biology and biomedical science,
understanding how male reproductive traits inuence
female tness, but with relevance to how seminal uid
inuences fertility in humans.
The Candidate is expected to have a background in
evolutionary biology, reproductive biology, ageing or a
related eld. It is expected that they will have experi-
ence working with rodents, or a very strong desire to
learn. Skills in mouse surgery and embryo transferswould be an asset.
The student will be primarily supervised by Dr. Michael
Garratt, whose interests lie in understanding the links
between reproduction and ageing. They will be housed
within The Department of Anatomy at the University
of Otago, a department with diverse and complimentary
research interests. These interests include reproduction,
genomics, development, neuroscience, neuroendocrinol-
ogy, clinical anatomy and biological anthropology. The
University of Otago is located in the beautiful town of
Dunedin in the South Island of New Zealand.
Please address any questions to Mike Garratt
(mike.garratt@otago.ac.nz)
For more information and to apply: https://-
otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=-
en&job\00366 Dr. Michael Garratt Senior Lecturer
Department of Anatomy School of Biomedical
Sciences University of Otago New Zealand Email:
mike.garratt@otago.ac.nz https://www.otago.ac.nz/-
anatomy/people/sta/prole/index.html?id=2975
https://scholar.google.co.nz/citations?hl=en&user=-
Q3aOKlgAAAAJ mike.garratt@otago.ac.nz
UppsalaU
MobileGeneticElementDefense
Postdoc Position at Uppsala University - Population
dynamics / Systems Biology
Molecular Systems Biology, Department of Cell and
Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Sweden.
A two-year position on a Carl Tryggers postdoc stipend
is available to undertake single-cell studies of the eect
of bacterial immune systems on conjugative plasmid
spread with Dr. Daniel Jones at Uppsala University.
*Project description:* Mobile genetic elements (MGEs)
such as phages and conjugative plasmids play a key role
in enabling bacteria to adapt to new ecological niches.
At the same time, recent work has begun to illuminate
the breadth and diversity of bacterial defense systems
against MGEs. In particular, the protein players in
CRISPR-Cas systems have been the subject of inten-
sive biophysical investigation into mechanisms of target
search and specic target recognition. For instance, we
have previously shown that the well-known Cas9 eec-
tor protein takes approximately six hours to locate a
specic DNA target in Escherichia coli.118 EvolDir April 1, 2022
In this project we aim to connect these biophysical ob-
servations with the population dynamics of conjugative
plasmid spread at the single-cell level. Given the slow
search times observed for CRISPR-Cas eector proteins,
how much do these systems need to be expressed in
order to provide eective protection, and what is the
cost to the cells of doing so? Does cell-to-cell variability
in CRISPR-Cas expression aect the vulnerability of
the populations to MGE invasion? To address these
questions we perform time-lapse uorescence microscopy
on populations of donor and recipient cells, grown in
microuidic devices. By labeling the molecular play-
ers (e.g. conjugative plasmids, CRISPR-Cas proteins)
with uorescent tags, we can directly observe individual
conjugation and interference events in quasi-real-time.
Advanced techniques in quantitative image analysis al-
low us to compile these individual events into a com-
prehensive picture of the balance between conjugation,
interference, and the cost of immunity.
*Requirements:* Applicants should possess a PhD de-
gree in microbiology, microbial ecology, biophysics, or a
related eld, as well as general molecular biology lab-
oratory skills. As the project is cross-disciplinary, the
specic eld is less important than strong computa-
tional/quantitative skills. Experience in quantitative
image analysis is a plus. Candidates must have received
their PhD from an institute other than the Deparment
of Cell and Molecular Biology at Uppsala University and
cannot currently have employment at the Department
of Cell and Molecular Biology. Prociency in spoken
and written English is required.
*Application:* Please submit your CV, a letter de-
scribing your research interests and skills, and con-
tact information for two references to Daniel Jones
(daniel.jones@icm.uu.se), Department of Cell and Molec-
ular Biology, Biomedicinskt centrum, Husargatan 3, 752
37 Uppsala, Sweden. Applications will be evaluated con-
tinuously until a suitable candidate has been identied.
*Starting Date:* As soon as possible.
*Additional info:* The Biomedical Center oers a superb
interdisciplinary working environment located just out-
side of central Uppsala. Uppsala is located 40 minutes
north of Stockholm by train, 20 minutes from Stock-
holm's international airport.
N ar du har kontakt med oss p ~A¥Uppsala univer-
sitet med e-post s ~A¥inneb ar det att vi behandlar
dina personuppgifter. F or att l asa mer om hur vi
g or det kan du l asa h ar: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/-
dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala Univer-
sity means that we will process your personal data. For
more information on how this is performed, please read
here: http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-policy Daniel Jones <daniel.jones@icm.uu.se >
UppsalaU SystematicMycology
We oer a 2-year postdoc position within a project
nanced by the Swedish Taxonomy Initiative at the Sys-
tematic Biology program, Uppsala University, Uppsala,
Sweden.
The project aim to improve the knowledge about the
species diversity in the order Atheliales and to sort the
species into a taxonomic system based on evolutionary
relations. A special focus will be given to the genus
Athelia for which previous studies have identied dif-
culties to delimit species based on morphology. The
position includes evaluating species boundaries using
molecular methods and to evaluate any morphological
dierences based on those analyses. It will therefore
include eld work to collect material, and to search for
new species within the order, and contact with herbaria
for loans of materials. It includes lab work for extrac-
tion and amplication of DNA and also morphological
studies including microscopy, and depiction of morpho-
logical characteristics. Since the present classication
into genera often do not represent evolutionary rela-
tions, the classication will be revised which will require
phylogenetic analyses.
The deadline for application is April 4. More infor-
mation and a link to the application system can be
found at: https://uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=478900 N >1
2r du har kontakt med oss p >1
2
Uppsala universitet med e-post s >1
2inneb >1
2r det att
vi behandlar dina personuppgifter. F >1
2r att l >1
2sa
mer om hur vi g >1
2r det kan du l >1
2sa h >1
2r: http:/-
/www.uu.se/om-uu/dataskydd-personuppgifter/ E-
mailing Uppsala University means that we will pro-
cess your personal data. For more information on
how this is performed, please read here: http://-
www.uu.se/en/about-uu/data-protection-policy Mar-
tin Ryberg <martin.ryberg@ebc.uu.se >Martin Ryberg
<martin.ryberg@ebc.uu.se >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 119
UPuertoRico 2 ButteryEvolution
University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras: Buttery wing
color pattern evolutionary and functional genomics
Two Postdocs positions in evolutionary and functional
genomics.
The Papa's lab (https://www.riccardopapalab.com) is
in San Juan, the capital of the beautiful island of Puerto
Rico, which provides amazing research opportunities and
lifestyle. The selected postdoc will explore the genetic
and epigenetic source of variation for natural selection
and adaptation to work upon.This research project will
investigate what governs patterns diversity, what limits
it, and what promotes its potentials. To do so, methods
of pure genetics, phylogenetics, epigenetics, single cell
genomics, developmental cell biology, and functional
genomics will be utilized. The nal goal is to charac-
terize the molecular architecture of single cells/scales of
unique colors.
Two NSF-funded postdoctoral positions are available in
the laboratory of Dr. Riccardo Papa in the Department
of Biology of the University of Puerto Rico, R o Piedras
Campus. These positions are looking to increase di-
versity in the research group and foster collaboration
and knowledge transfer. The laboratory has a rich back-
ground in studying the natural history of Heliconius but-
teries, with a genomic, evolutionary developmental fo-
cus. Our research is using high-end genomic approaches
and functional assays to characterize the genetic and
epigenetic architecture of color pattern development in
butteries. We are using whole genome resequencing,
ATAC-seq, ChIP-seq and CRISPR to better understand
the pathways involved in color pattern development and
their evolution. We have enough data to test strong
hypotheses in buttery wing color pattern development
using a single cell genomic approach. Our lab has state
of the art genomic technology which includes, an Illu-
mina Miseq, an Illumina NextSeq 2000, and a single
cell 10X Chromium among many other equipment. We
generate all the data locally and can perform CRISPR
experiments using our buttery rearing facility.
SPECIAL REQUISITES
The candidate must have completed a Ph.D. degree,
preferably in the areas of genomics, population genetics,
developmental biology and or computational biology.
The position requires skills in the areas of genomics,development and computational biology, and a strong
record of research in these areas. Being highly moti-
vated will be necessary to collaborate with National and
International research groups. The work will focus on
bioinformatics methods to analyze large genomic and
epigenomic data. Specically, this includes generating
single cell genomic data and building pipelines to assem-
ble and analyze such dataset (epigenetic and expression)
to determine cell fate and buttery's wing color pat-
tern development with a precision never available before.
Candidates from Minority Serving Institutions (MSI)
are strongly encouraged to apply for the position
HOW TO APPLY
To apply, please submit in one PDF le: (i) one page
cover letter including motivation and research inter-
ests, (ii) a CV, and (iii) contact information for two
references electronically, to riccardo.papa@upr.edu and
rpapa.lab@gmail.com. Review of applications will start
immediately and will continue until the position is lled.
Job can start as early as July 2022.
*The selected candidate will be required to present o-
cial credentials from all his/her academic degrees.
This job opportunity is nanced with external funding
and does not consider the expectation of a probation
position.
Riccardo Papa Full Professor, Department of Biology
Director of High Throughput Sequencing Facility Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico - R o Piedras Julio Garc a D az
(JGD) 213 Rio Piedras, San Juan PR 00931
tell: 787-764-0000 ext 4827(oce) or 7764(lab) fax:
787-764-3875 Lab WebPage (under construction):
http://www.wix.com/ricpapa/Papa-Riccardo-Lab Topi-
cos 2013 (Genomic Frontiers in Modern biology):http:/-
/biotopicsuprrp.weebly.com/index.html Riccardo Papa
<rpapa.lab@gmail.com >
URomeTorVergata
MetagenomicsAncientCats
Post-doctoral position on metagenomics of ancient cats
(Felis silvestris)
Deadline: 30/03/2022, 12:00
Project description.
The Centre of Molecular Anthropology of the Univer-
sity of Rome Tor Vergata is looking for a two-year120 EvolDir April 1, 2022
postdoctoral researcher. The fellow will work on the
ERC-funded project FELIX (https://www.ercfelix.com)
to conduct metagenomic analyses on ancient cat re-
mains. The goal is to analyze shotgun sequencing data
from historic and prehistoric specimens to detect the
presence of microbial pathogens and reconstruct ancient
microbial communities from dental calculus samples.By
investigating a complementary set of unique and as yet
unexplored multidisciplinary data, from paleogenomics
to stable isotope analysis, the overall objective of Fe-
lix is to shed light on the evolution of the cat-human
relationship across a wide spectrum of socio-cultural
contexts, from prehistoric farming communities to the
ancient Egyptian and Medieval societies.
Main responsibilities.
We are seeking highly motivated applicants with a strong
interest in inter-disciplinary research. Key tasks of
the position include computational analysis of high-
throughput DNA sequencing data from archaeological
samples, screening shotgun sequencing data for micro-
bial species with taxonomic classiers (taxonomic pro-
ling, taxonomic binning), reconstruction and analysis
of whole ancient and modern microbial genomes (from
variant calling to phylogenetic analysis), development
of targeted enrichment assays. There will be also the
possibility to participate to side projects on ancient hu-
man dental calculus conducted in the team. We seek
personal skills such as collaborative spirit, ability to
work independently and take own-initiatives. The fellow
is also expected to participate in the daily activities of
research team and is expected to be uent in English
and contribute with written and oral dissemination of
research.
Requirements.
Applicants must hold a degree and PhD in biology,
bioinformatics or similar. Experience in metagenomic
analysis of ancient samples, microbial genomics and/or
phylogenetics is essential. Knowledge of Bash, Python,
R and other programming languages. Experience of
work in HPC clusters and job scheduling systems (slurm).
Demonstrated ability to present research results in in-
ternational academic contexts and write papers in peer-
reviewed journals. Experience with ancient DNA wet
lab analyses is desirable but not necessary.
Terms of employment.
The position involves full-time employment for a max-
imum of two years, with the possibility of extension
under special circumstances.
About the host team. The Centre of Molecular Anthro-
pology for the study of Ancient DNA in the Department
of Biology of the University of Rome Tor Vergata is afriendly and growing environment, conducting research
in biomolecular archaeology thorough the analysis of
ancient DNA and stable isotopes.
The Centre features state-of-the-art dedicated labo-
ratory for aDNA in the monumental complex 'Villa
Mondragone', next to the town Frascati (https://-
www.villamondragone.it).
Modern DNA and post-PCR laboratories are available in
separate buildings at the Department of Biology (https:/-
/g.page/scienzetorvergata?share).
Additional information.
Applications must be submitted on the Italian Cineca
Pica platform only: https://pica.cineca.it/uniroma2/-
f3-2022-0002/ For support in the application procedure
and further information please contact Claudio Ottoni
(claudio.ottoni@uniroma2.it) or Tullia Di Corcia (tul-
lia.di.corcia@uniroma2.it)
Claudio Ottoni <claudio.ottoni@uniroma2.it >
USGS Flagsta
PlantPopulationGenetics
The U.S. Geological Survey Southwest Biological Sci-
ence Center in Flagsta, AZ is seeking an Ecologist who
is a recent graduate to assist with genomic investiga-
tions of common and rare plant species across the Inter-
mountain West.Projects involve population/landscape
genomic, phylogeographic, and taxonomic inferences
to support restoration and conservation management
needs for federal partners. Common analytical tech-
niques include demographic modeling, estimating im-
pacts of environments on adaptation, and genomic
cline analyses; opportunities for methodological devel-
opment may also be available. Many of the data are
in hand and the researcher will immediately contribute
to all stages of project development/execution. The
researcher will predominantly work in an oce setting,
but some eldwork may be possible. The pay rate
will be consistent with a GS-11 Ecologist ( $31.83/hour)
and the position is eligible for benets. The candi-
date must be a U.S. citizen, pass a federal background
check and a pre-employment physical, and have a clean
driving record. Representative research projects are
described at https://www.usgs.gov/sbsc/gwrc Expec-
tations: - Authorship/co-authorship of multiple peer-
reviewed publications - Work well in a collaborative
setting - Consistent and excellent attention to detail -April 1, 2022 EvolDir 121
Work in Flagsta, AZ
Minimum qualications: - PhD - Experience with next-
generation sequencing protocols and data pipelines -
Programming and data analysis skills in R - Ability
to manage/work with big data (genetic and climate) -
Experience with genetic analyses applicable to SNPs, for
example: Stacks, ipyrad, genetic structure/assignment
tests, PCA and sPCA, fastsimcoal2/dadi, LFMM, RDA,
Procrustes, EEMS, Bedassle, etc. - Excellent writing
skills
Desired qualications: - Demonstrated ability to pub-
lish in peer-reviewed journals - Knowledge of western
U.S. plant communities and natural history - Working
knowledge of mixed models and eld-based climate ma-
nipulation experimental designs - Conversant in restora-
tion and conservation topics pertinent to the western
U.S. - Experience with other programming/scripting
languages (Python, Perl, C++, shell, etc.) - Experi-
ence working with remote high-performance computing
clusters (managed by slurm)
If interested, please submit a cover letter and CV (in-
cluding contact information for three references) to Rob
Massatti (rmassatti@usgs.gov). This position is open
until lled.
\Massatti, Robert T" <rmassatti@usgs.gov >
USouthBohemia EvolutionaryEcol
We are a research campus with a strong tradition in
biosciences focused on complex ecological, evolutionary
& developmental aspects of LIFE. Faculty of Science,
University of South Bohemia in Aesk e Bud Ajovice is
looking for excellent candidates for a position of
Post-doctoral Researcher in Polar Evolutionary
Ecology Centre for Polar Ecology (CPE) (https://-
www.prf.jcu.cz/en/cpe.html) at the Faculty of Sciences,
University of South Bohemia seeks to appoint a
junior-level scientist as a post-doctoral researcher in
a new group led by Dr Vojt Ach Kubelka (https://-
www.prf.jcu.cz/en/cpe/contacts/people/kubelka.html)
and focusing on evolutionary ecology of birds, climate
change biology, parasitology, predator-prey interactions
and animal migration (https://www.prf.jcu.cz/en/-
cpe/about/research-group/zoology.html). The exact
position targeting is negotiable according to ambitions
of the successful applicant.
CPE aims promotes and facilitate research and educa-tion in polar ecological sciences at the Faculty of Science,
University of South Bohemia in Aesk e Bud Ajovice. The
main goal of CPE is multi-disciplinary research focused
on Arctic and polar ecology, zoology, parasitology, mi-
crobiology and botany. More information at: https:/-
/www.prf.jcu.cz/en/cpe.html . We oer access to and
support from the Czech Arctic research station on Sval-
bard as well as the support from international network
of more than 40 research teams distributed globally
and connected via ~ALVONAL Shorebird Science project
(https://elvonalshorebirds.com/home/). The Svalbard
infrastructure consists of a year-round research station
in Longyearbyen, eld station in Petuniabukta and a
research motor-sail vessel operational all-around Sval-
bard.
Successful candidate will be promoted to apply for sup-
port from faculty budget and will be expected to seek
for own research funding applying to national and as
well to European founding agencies.
What would be your main responsibilities
Organize and carry out eld work in a foreign coun-
try/countries, execute own polar research with interna-
tional cooperationCoordinate data collection and analy-
ses, preparation of publicationsSeek funding for research
in close collaboration with team membersSupervise stu-
dents and research assistantsPresent and promote the
results at conferences and seminarsCarry out other sci-
entic and/or academic activities that are important
for the success of the project
What we oer
Two-years position with the possibility of extensionEx-
cellent instruments equipment and multiple research
platforms within CPE and Faculty of Sciences, Uni-
versity of South Bohemia in Aesk e Bud AjoviceAccess
to the Czech Arctic research station on SvalbardEx-
tensive international networking and mentoring op-
portunities via ~ALVONAL Shorebird Science project
(https://elvonalshorebirds.com/home/)Full support for
own research funding applicationsEnglish speaking,
stimulating & friendly international research en-
vironmentHR Award certicate, jcu.cz/about-the-
university/development/hr-award-hrs4rProfessional ad-
ministration support and help with all personal, eco-
nomic, legal, project, IT, intellectual property needsFlex-
ible working time, 5 weeks of vacationMeals allowance,
special mobile services, university kindergartenWork-
life balance in a historical middle-sized university city,
cz/en/
Competitive candidates are expected to have
PhD in evolutionary biology, behavioural ecology, zo-
ology, or relevant eld of life sciencesSolid knowledge122 EvolDir April 1, 2022
in at least two of those elds: evolutionary ecology, cli-
mate change biology, parasitology, predator-prey inter-
actions and animal migrationExperience in carrying out
or supervising international research projects3+ years
hands-on experiences in basic research, ideally direct
experience with Arctic or polar/alpine researchInterest
in long-term eld research using Czech Arctic research
station facilities on SvalbardGood skills in statistical
modelling, advanced level in using RStrong record of
success conducting research and scholarly activities, in-
cluding publications in peer-reviewed journalsDemon-
strated project management experience and leadership
skillsExperience with large data sets reading, analysis
and presentationBudgetary and general administrative
skillsExcellent interpersonal skills and ability to collab-
orate within a team-based environment, ability to work
eectively both in a team and independentlyExperi-
ence in bird ringing, and preferably a ringing licence is
welcomedValid driving licence
Application:
Interested candidates should contact Vojt Ach Kubelka
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UToronto UrbanBiodiversity
Post-Doc: The Centre for Urban Environments
(CUE) (www.urbanenvironment.ca) at the University
of Toronto Mississauga (UTM) seeks applications for
a fully-funded one-year CUE Post-doctoral Fellowship.
The topic of research by the CUE post-doc is open to the
study on urban environments on any topic in the natural
sciences, or research that bridges natural sciences with
social sciences and humanities.
Application deadline: March 17, 2022
Start date: Summer/Fall 2022
For more information see: https://-
www.utm.utoronto.ca/cue/cue-initiatives/cue-post-
doctoral-fellowship Sanya Wedemier-Graham
<sanya.wedemiergraham@utoronto.ca >WashingtonStateU
EvolutionaryModelling
POSTDOCTORALRESEARCHER
Washington State University
School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking a postdoctoralresearcher with expertise
in evolutionary modeling to join our diverse, interna-
tional team studying Tasmanian devils and Tasmanian
devil facial tumor disease, a transmissible cancer.This
NSF-funded collaboration builds on over 20 years of
mark-recapture studies tracking the spread of the unique
transmissible tumor across Tasmania and consequent
endangerment of the iconic Tasmanian devil. As the top
predator in Tasmania, devil declines have altered the
native mammal community via trophic cascades. This
project bridges ecology and evolution to predict future
community dynamics that result from devil declines.
The successful applicant will have an unprecedented op-
portunity to analyze tens of thousands of mark-recapture
records, thousands of devil genotypes and hundreds of
tumor genomes sampled both before and after epizootics
to: model coevolutionary dynamics, predict phenotypic
evolution of Tasmanian devils aided by pedigree recon-
struction, and assist conservation decision-making by
modeling alternative management scenarios. The po-
sition is centered in the lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer
(https://storfer-lab.org/) at Washington State Univer-
sity, with the possibility for scholarly exchanges with
University of South Florida, University of Tasmania and
Grith University in Australia.
Review of applications will begin on April 15, 2022 and
continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in Biology
or a related discipline, combined with strong quanti-
tative skills and modeling experience is required. De-
sired qualities also include experience in host-pathogen
systems, population genetics/ genomics analysis, and
quantitative genetics modeling.Start date is negotiable
but is anticipated to begin by September 1, 2022. Salary
and benets are competitive. Position is for 1 year, with
continuation possible for additional year(s).To apply,
please send in pdf format a CV, and names, addresses
and email addresses of 3 references, a research state-
ment, and up to 3 representative reprints via email
to: Andrew Storfer (astorfer@wsu.edu).Inquiries prior
to application are also encouraged. *WSU is an EqualApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 123
Opportunity/Armative Action/ADA educator and em-
ployer.*
Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
School of Biological Sciences Washington State Uni-
versity Pullman, WA 99164-4236 (509) 335-7922 as-
torfer@wsu.edu www.storfer-lab.org \Storfer, Andrew"
<astorfer@wsu.edu >
Yale 6 BiodiversityConservation
Postdoc positions in Quantitative Conservation, Ecology,
and Global Biodiversity Science
As part of a new cohort hire, six postdoctoral posi-
tions are available in association with the Yale Cen-
ter for Biodiversity and Global Change (BGC Cen-
ter), the Max Planck-Yale Center for Biodiversity
Movement and Global Change, and Map of Life.
These are 2-3-year positions, some with the poten-
tial for longer-term (non-ladder faculty) employment.
https://bgc.yale.edu Quantitative Conservation Science
- https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-conservation
Global Macroecology and Macroevolution - https://-
bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-macroecology Quanti-
tative Ecology - https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/-
pd-quantitativeecology Animal Movement and Global
Change - https://bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-mpyc
Global Marine Biodiversity Conservation - https:/-
/bgc.yale.edu/opportunities/pd-marine Global Bio-
diversity of Vascular Plants - https://bgc.yale.edu/-
opportunities/pd-plants Diversity, equity, and inclusion
are core values of the Center, and we are committed to
ensuring our workplace reects those values. As such,
we strongly encourage applications from researchers
identifying as a member of a historically marginalized
group.
The Yale BGC Center connects biodiversity scientists
from across campus and supports research and train-
ing around the use of new technologies and data ows
for model-based inference and prediction of biodiversity
change. One agship BGC Center project is Map of Life.
Other initiatives associated with the Center include the
integration of spatial, phylogenetic, and functional di-
mensions of biodiversity (e.g., VertLife, ButteryNet),
NASA-supported remote sensing-informed layers and
tools for biodiversity modelling EarthEnv, biodiversity
movement analysis (through the Max-Planck Yale Cen-
ter), and the Wildlife Insights initiative for camera trap-
ping data.Yale University oers researchers and sta competitive
salaries and a generous package of benets. Yale has a
thriving and growing community of young scholars in
ecology, evolution, and global change science in the EEB
Department, the Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies,
the Peabody Museum, and the Yale School of the En-
vironment. New Haven is renowned for its classic Ivy
League setting, 75 miles northeast of New York City.
\Jetz, Walter" <walter.jetz@yale.edu >
YaleU PopulationGenomics
A position as a postdoctoral researcher/fellow in pop-
ulation and evolutionary genetics is available at the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale
University, in Dr. Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone research
group.
Project description: This project is looking at adaptive
and non-adaptive mechanisms of phenotypic evolution
in response to urbanization in the Eastern Gray Squirrel.
Phenotypic divergence between cities and adjacent rural
areas has been well documented but disentangling the
roles of adaptive and non-adaptive drivers of divergence
for heritable traits has proved challenging. Environmen-
tal dierences between urban and rural areas can cause
divergent natural selection, but phenotypic divergence
can also result from strong genetic drift due to founder
eects and small population size in cities. Gene ow
between urban and rural areas should reduce phenotypic
divergence, but the strength of this homogenizing force
likely varies among cities due to dierences in landscape
structure. Studies of phenotypic variation and popula-
tion genetic structure across multiple cities are needed to
advance our understanding of how urbanization causes
trait evolution via adaptive and non-adaptive pathways.
This project seeks to ll this knowledge gap.
This project is funded by a NSF grant. The Yale PI
is Adalgisa Caccone (https://caccone.yale.edu/). The
project is in collaboration with with the research groups
of Bradley Cosentino (https://landscapemosaic.org/-
index.html) and James Gibbs (https://www.esf.edu/-
EFB/gibbs).
Duties: The postdoctoral hire will be responsible for
collecting and analyzing population genomic data, in-
cluding ddRADSeq and whole genome data.
Qualications required: For this position, the candidate
must hold a PhD degree within evolutionary biology or124 EvolDir April 1, 2022
another relevant eld, with experience in population and
landscape genomics and phylogeography. They need to
be able to express themselves uently in spoken and
written English, work independently, thrive in a mul-
ticultural and collaborative environment, and willing
to support the training of undergraduate and graduate
students.
You are welcome to submit your application by April
10, 2022. Applications will be reviewed as they come in.
The tentative start of the position is August/September
2022. To apply please send a CV and a description of
your interest and qualications and how they t with
the job description.
For inquiries please contact: Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone
(Adalgisa. Caccone@yale.edu)
Adalgisa Caccone Senior Research Scientist ESC 140
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Yale University 21
Sachem St. New Haven, CT 06520 Tel 203-432-5259 fax
203-432-7394
\Caccone, Adalgisa" <adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu >
adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu
YaleU
TortoiseConservationGenomics
A position as a postdoctoral researcher/fellow in pop-
ulation and evolutionary genomics is available at the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale
University, in Dr. Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone research
group.
Project Title: Giant Galapagos tortoises evolutionary,phylogeography, and conservation genomics using extant
and extinct taxa.
Project Description: We are using genomic methods to
reconstruct the evolutionary history of Giant Galapagos
tortoises using data from extant and extinct popula-
tions and species. This is part of a long-term research
agenda on this iconic group of organisms carried out
in collaboration with multiple research institutions and
foundations.
Duties: The postdoctoral hire will be responsible for
collecting and analyzing population genomic data from
extant and extinct taxa for a variety of goals including
reconstructing the colonization history of the group,
looking at patterns of recent and historical introgression
and demographic dynamics, and carrying out species
delimitation analyses to evaluate taxonomic ranks.
Qualications required: For this position, the candidate
must hold a PhD degree within evolutionary biology or
another relevant eld, with experience in population,
phylogeography, and conservation genomics. Experience
in aDNA methods is preferred. They need to be able
to express themselves uently in spoken and written
English, work independently, thrive in a multicultural
and collaborative environment, and willing to support
the training of undergraduate and graduate students.
You are welcome to submit your application by April
15, 2022. Applications will be reviewed as they come
in. The tentative start of the position is July 2022.
Funding is for two years. To apply please send a CV
and a description of your interest and qualications and
how they t with the job description.
For inquiries please contact: Adalgisa (Gisella) Caccone
(Adalgisa. Caccone@yale.edu)
\Caccone, Adalgisa" <adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu >
adalgisa.caccone@yale.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Arboretum HarvardU PhenotypeFunctionDevelopment
Jun6-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Harvard PlantMorphology Jun6-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
MexicoCity GenotypingBioinformatics Jun13-18, . 126
MountainLakeBiolStation EvolutionaryBiol Jun12-19127
NewHampshire EvolutionInChangingSeas Aug2022 127
NewMexico UrbanEcoEvolution Aug24-26 . . . . . . . .127
Online AdaptationGenomics May30-Jun3 . . . . . . . . 128
Online BayesianAnalysesEvolutionaryBiol Apr4-8 129April 1, 2022 EvolDir 125
Online Bioinformatics Jun20-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Online LandscapeGenetics Aug15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Online LandscapeGenomics Jun13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Online Metabarcoding Apr4-May1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Online Metagenomics Jun13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Online Palaeogenomics May16-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Online ReproducibilityInBioinformatics Jul11-13 . 132Online RNAseq Apr4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
SantaBarbara PolygenicAdaptation Jun13-Jul15 . .134
Smithsonian MeiofaunaDiversity Jun13-14 . . . . . . . .135
SummerInstStatGenetics EvolGenetics Jul11-29 . . 136
UPorto PlantEvolutionaryGenomics May9-13 . . . . 136
Vairao-Porto PlantGenomics May9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Arboretum HarvardU
PhenotypeFunctionDevelopment
Jun6-16
Arnold Arboretum Summer Course 2022 - Plant Mor-
phology: Linking Phenotype and Function to Develop-
ment
This two-week short course (June 6 - 16, 2022) will be
taught as an intense lecture, laboratory, and living col-
lections learning experience. The course will be based at
the Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arbore-
tum of Harvard University in Boston (Massachusetts;
USA), which oers a state-of-the-art microscopy lab-
oratory for teaching and sits amid the 15,000+ living
specimens of more than 2,200 species at the Arnold
Arboretum.
This course will provide a working knowledge of concepts
that are central to understanding the developmental ba-
sis for the remarkable structural and functional diversity
of plants. Topics include developmental dynamics, evolu-
tionary diversication, and ecological and physiological
function. Ultimately, this course aims to provide the
intellectual skills necessary to interpret the vast array
of morphologies that exist among plants. Each day will
consist of lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample
opportunity to explore the Arnold Arboretum.
There are no course fees, room and board are provided,
and funds are available to help defray costs of participant
travel.
Course Instructors: Pamela Diggle (University of Con-
necticut), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard Univer-
sity), and Cynthia Jones (University of Connecticut).
Application Deadline: Applications must be sub-
mitted by 11:30 pm March 31st, 2022. Ap-
plication instructions are available on the course
website: https://arboretum.harvard.edu/research/-
programs-and-opportunities/summer-short-course/ Eli-
gibility: microMORPH summer short courses are open
to postdoctoral researchers, graduate students, and un-dergraduates in their nal year of study (who have been
admitted to a graduate or professional program for the
fall of 2022). Non-US-citizens are welcome to apply (but
are responsible for obtaining the appropriate visa to be
able to attend the course).
How to Apply: For full application instructions
(including list of required documents) and to sub-
mit applications, please visit the course website
(https://arboretum.harvard.edu/research/programs-
and-opportunities/summer-short-course/).
Questions or Comments? Contact Pamela Diggle at
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
\Diggle, Pamela" <pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >
Harvard PlantMorphology Jun6-16
Application deadline approaching!
Arnold Arboretum Summer Course 2022 - Plant Mor-
phology: Linking Phenotype and Function to Develop-
ment
This two-week short course (June 6 - 16, 2022) will be
taught as an intense lecture, laboratory, and living col-
lections learning experience. The course will be based at
the Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arbore-
tum of Harvard University in Boston (Massachusetts;
USA), which oers a state-of-the-art microscopy lab-
oratory for teaching and sits amid the 15,000+ living
specimens of more than 2,200 species at the Arnold
Arboretum.
This course will provide a working knowledge of concepts
that are central to understanding the developmental ba-
sis for the remarkable structural and functional diversity
of plants. Topics include developmental dynamics, evolu-
tionary diversication, and ecological and physiological
function. Ultimately, this course aims to provide the
intellectual skills necessary to interpret the vast array
of morphologies that exist among plants. Each day will
consist of lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample126 EvolDir April 1, 2022
opportunity to explore the Arnold Arboretum.
There are no course fees, room and board are provided,
and funds are available to help defray costs of participant
travel.
Course Instructors: Pamela Diggle (University of Con-
necticut), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard Univer-
sity), and Cynthia Jones (University of Connecticut).
Application Deadline: Applications must be sub-
mitted by 11:30 pm March 31st, 2022. Ap-
plication instructions are available on the course
website: https://arboretum.harvard.edu/research/-
programs-and-opportunities/summer-short-course/ Eli-
gibility: microMORPH summer short courses are open
to postdoctoral researchers, graduate students, and un-
dergraduates in their nal year of study (who have been
admitted to a graduate or professional program for the
fall of 2022). Non-US-citizens are welcome to apply (but
are responsible for obtaining the appropriate visa to be
able to attend the course).
How to Apply: For full application instructions
(including list of required documents) and to sub-
mit applications, please visit the course website
(https://arboretum.harvard.edu/research/programs-
and-opportunities/summer-short-course/).
Questions or Comments? Contact Pamela Diggle at
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
\Diggle, Pamela" <pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >
MexicoCity
GenotypingBioinformatics Jun13-18,
Dear colleagues,
The Institute of Ecology of the National Autonomous
University of Mexico (UNAM) is pleased to announce
that it will hold a week-long bioinformatics workshop
from June 13-18. The workshop will include an overview
of reduced representation sequencing methods to address
genomic, phylogenomic, and population genomic ques-
tions with an emphasis on plant genomes. Students
working in any study system are encouraged to attend.
The workshop is primarily aimed at rst-semester grad-
uate students, advanced undergraduates, and postdocs
who wish to gain expertise in this area. Topics to be
covered include fundamental UNIX skills, sequencing
strategies, data quality assessment and data ltering,
automated assembly and annotation of plastid and mi-tochondrial genomes, RADseq, and sequence capture.
The language of instruction will be English, but with
signicant support for Spanish language speakers. Stu-
dents with prociency in both languages are particularly
encouraged to apply.
As an integral part of the workshop, scientists from the
United States and Mexico will deliver lectures describing
how these approaches are being used to address dierent
evolutionary problems in the Agavoideae (Agaves, Yuc-
cas, and allied genera). Speakers will include: Mar >1
2a
Clara Arteaga (Center for Graduate Studies and Sci-
entic Research of Ensenada), Luis Eguiarte (UNAM),
Karolina Heyduk (University of Hawaii), James Leebens
Mack (University of Georgia), Michael McKain (Univer-
sity of Alabama), Jorge Nieto Solano (UNAM), Christo-
pher Smith (Willamette University), and Ella V >1
2zquez
(UNAM). Students are strongly encouraged to present
posters describing their research or work in progress on
any topic.
The course is free, but due to Covid restrictions work-
shop attendance is strictly limited to 30 students. To
register for the workshop, send an email before April 1
to: csmith@willamette.edu. Applicants should include
a brief explanation of why they wish to attend the work-
shop and how it will help them further their career
goals.
Travel funding is likely to be available for a small num-
ber of students and postdocs with nancial need. To
request travel funds, please include in the registration
email an explanation of your nancial needs, listing
your current scholarships, TAships and RAships, a de-
scription of travel funding available from other sources,
and an estimate of transportation costs, including price
quotes if possible. The decision of which students to
support will depend on costs and the amount of funding
available.
Sincerely,
*Christopher Irwin Smith* *He/His/Him (Or any re-
spectful pronouns)* Professor of Biology Willamette
University Salem, OR 97301 ph: 503-370-6181 fax: 503-
375-5425
*Joshua Tree Genome Project:* JoshuaTreeGenome.org
Christopher Smith <csmith@willamette.edu >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 127
MountainLakeBiolStation
EvolutionaryBiol Jun12-19
Register now for the Evolutionary Biology Graduate
Student Workshop at Mountain Lake Biological Station!
June 12-19, 2022 Registration Deadline: May 27, 2022
Limited to 16 participants. Location: Mountain Lake
Biological Station, 240 Salt Pond Cir., Pembroke, VA
24136.
A six-day workshop on evolutionary biology for early ca-
reer graduate students. You'll have the time and support
to think, talk, and write deeply about the evolutionary
questions that most excite you. Led by Amanda K
Gibson, Jeremy Draghi, and Idelle Cooper.
Cost: $510.00 More information and registration
here: https://mlbs.virginia.edu/evolutionary-biology-
workshop Amanda Kyle Gibson, Ph.D. Assistant Pro-
fessor (she/her)
Physical Life Sciences Building, RM 114 Department of
Biology University of Virginia Charlottesville, VA
Email: akg5nq@virginia.edu Website: https://-
coevolving.org/ \Gibson, Amanda K (akg5nq)"
<akg5nq@virginia.edu >
NewHampshire
EvolutionInChangingSeas Aug2022
The Research Coordinated Network for Evolution in
Changing Seas (RCN-ECS) is an NSF-funded network of
marine scientists, evolutionary biologists, and oceanog-
raphers working to develop integrated frameworks for
studying adaptation to ocean change.
Applications are now open for this summer's training
and integration workshop at Shoals Marine Laboratory
from August 16 to 19, 2022. Please apply here https://-
rcn-ecs.github.io/WorkingGroups/ by April 5. We aim
to bring together researchers with expertise in marine
science, evolutionary biology, and oceanography, with
the objective of providing training and mentorship op-
portunities for early-career researchers. The format will
include presentations and tutorials. For more informa-tion on topics that will be covered see: https://rcn-
ecs.github.io/WorkingGroups/ Transportation to and
from Shoals Marine Lab is via their vessel, which will
run on August 16 and August 19. Applicants should
plan to stay for the entire duration of the workshop.
Also, the workshop will be in a hybrid format. The
internet at Shoals is typically excellent, and all talks
and tutorials will be broadcast online.
Funding for this workshop comes from the National Sci-
ence Foundation. Participants who travel from within
the US or its territories, and have a SSN or TID, will be
reimbursed for travel to and from the workshop. Unfor-
tunately, no funds are available to reimburse researchers
for travel from other countries. However, the workshop
is free and all workshop participants will have housing
and food provided for them during the workshop.
We understand that certain individuals may have special
circumstances that may make it dicult for them to
participate in the workshop (e.g. pregnancy, young chil-
dren, disability). We encourage all individuals to apply
regardless of special circumstances, as we are willing to
work with participants to accommodate them if they are
accepted. If you have any questions about whether or
not we would be able to accommodate your special cir-
cumstances, please email us at evolvingseas@gmail.com.
We hope to see you in August, either virtually or in
person!
Sincerely, Erik Sotka (on behalf of the Steering Com-
mittee of the RCN-ECS)
{ Erik Sotka Professor of Biology College of Charleston
sotkae.people.cofc.edu
Erik Sotka <eriksotka@gmail.com >
NewMexico UrbanEcoEvolution
Aug24-26
We invite evolutionary biologists, ecologists and urban
scientists to join us at the Sevilleta Long-Term Ecologi-
cal Research (LTER) site (New Mexico, US) on August
24-26 to discuss urban eco-evolutionary dynamics across
the LTER network, identify new collaborative research,
and dene best practices for inclusive research that
leverages the existing strengths of the LTER network.
As the world becomes increasingly urban, understanding
ecological, evolutionary, and eco-evolutionary dynamics
will require studies that explicitly assess all habitats-128 EvolDir April 1, 2022
from wildlands to suburbs to city centers within the
context of urbanizing landscapes. In order to meet this
emergent research need, we will need long-term studies,
collaboration across disciplinary and interdisciplinary
boundaries, and experiments that are replicated across
broad spatial scales and diverse ecological contexts. The
US LTER network is ideally situated to meet this re-
search need and to generate timely and transformative
insights that will both advance knowledge in evolution-
ary ecology and improve predictive capacity in a rapidly
urbanizing world.
Briey, the workshop will follow the following themes:
Day 1: Convergence, integration, and inclusive goals for
future urban eco-evolutionary dynamics research across
the US LTER network
Day 2: Design an initial trait mapping exercise across
multiple biomes and urban contexts surrounding LTER
sites
Day 3: Unconference-style idea-fest to identify and de-
velop new projects and collaborations
More information about the meeting and our
Research Coordination Network on Urban Eco-
Evolutionary Dynamics can be found here: https:/-
/www.urbanecoevo.net/about If you are inter-
ested in joining us, please email Amy Savage (
amy.savage@rutgers.edu) by May 01, 2022 with a brief
statement of interest in the workshop (no more than 250
words). Participants will be chosen to balance diversity
in career stage, eld of research, LTER experience, and
demographic background.
We are happy to accommodate requests to join the work-
shop remotely; please include your preference for remote
participation in your email response along with your
statement of interest.
Funding is available to support travel, accommodation,
and food during the workshop. Please indicate your
interest in this funding in your email response.
Brian C. Verrelli (bverrelli@vcu.edu)Online AdaptationGenomics
May30-Jun3
Dear all,there are the last seats available for the Physalia
course on Adaptation Genomics, which will take place
ONLINE from the May 30th to June 3rd
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
courseadaptationgenomics/ )
Instructors: Dr. Anna Tigano (UNIVERSITY OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA, Canada) and Dr Claire Merot
(CNRS, France) and Dr. Gabriela Montejo-Kovacevich
(University of Cambridge, UK).This course provides
an introduction to the study of the genomic basis of
adaptation using population genomics approaches ap-
plied to the analysis of both sequence and structural
genetic variation. The instructors will guide the par-
ticipants from the handling of raw genomic data and
data exploration (e.g., summary statistics and popula-
tion structure) up to more advanced methods, including
genotype-environment associations based on both se-
quence and structural variants. Through hands-on exer-
cises, the course will teach basic bioinformatics skills and
how to manipulate, visualize and interpret genomic data
and patterns.Learning Outcomes1) Handling genomic
data from raw reads to genetic variants2) Calculating
basic population genetic statistics3) Visualizing genetic
population structure4) Searching for signatures of se-
lection in the genome5) Accounting for putative struc-
tural variants6) Understanding the potential and the
limitations of dierent methods to study the genomic
basis of adaptationOur other online courses: ( https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )All the
best,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 129
Online
BayesianAnalysesEvolutionaryBiol
Apr4-8
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course Introduction to
Bayesian Inference in Practice - 6th edition. This course
will be held live online (synchronous). Max 18 partici-
pants.
This course is addressed to evolutionary biologists that
want to improve their knowledge of Bayesian methods.
Dates: April 4th-8th, 2022.
Instructors: Dr. Daniele Silvestro (University of Gothen-
burg, Sweden) and Tobias Andermann (University of
Gothenburg, Sweden)
Course Overview:
This course is based on the assumption that the easiest
way to understand the principles of Bayesian inference
and the functioning of the main algorithms is to imple-
ment these methods yourself.
The instructor will outline the relevant concepts and
basic theory, but the focus of the course will be to
learn how to do Bayesian inference in practice. He will
show how to implement the most common algorithms
to estimate parameters based on posterior probabilities,
such as Markov Chain Monte Carlo samplers, and how
to build hierarchical models. He will also touch upon
hypothesis testing using Bayes factors and Bayesian
variable selection.
The course will take a learn-by-doing approach, in which
participants will implement their own MCMCs using R
or Python (templates for both languages will be pro-
vided). After completion of the course, the participants
will have gained a better understanding of how the
main Bayesian methods are implemented in many pro-
grams used in biological research work. Participants will
also learn how to model at least basic problems using
Bayesian statistics and how to implement the necessary
algorithms to solve them.
Participants are expected to have some knowledge of R
or Python (each can choose their preferred language),
but they will be guided \line-by-line" in writing their
script. The aim is that, by the end of the week, each
participant will have written their own MCMC - fromscratch! Participants are encouraged to bring own
datasets and questions and we will (try to) gure them
out during the course and implement scripts to analyze
them in a Bayesian framework.
More information and registration at https://-
www.transmittingscience.com/courses/statistics-
and-bioinformatics/introduction-bayesian-inference-
practice/ or writing courses@transmittingscience.com
Best regards
{ Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD Director Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.com Twitter
@SoleDeEsteban Orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-
2049-0890 Under the provisions of current regulations
on the protection of personal data, Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of 27 April 2016 (GDPR), we inform you that
personal data and email address, collected from the data
subject will be used by TRANSMITTING SCIENCE
SL to manage communications through email and prop-
erly manage the professional relationship with you. The
data are obtained based on a contractual relationship or
the legitimate interest of the Responsible, likewise the
data will be kept as long as there is a mutual interest for
it. The data will not be communicated to third parties,
except for legal obligations. We inform you that you can
request detailed information on the processing as well as
exercise your rights of access, rectication, portability
and deletion of your data and those of limitation and op-
position to its treatment by contacting Calle Gardenia,
2 Urb. Can Claramunt de Piera CP: 08784 (Barcelona)
or sending an email to info@transmittingscience.com
or http://transmittingscience.com/additional-terms. If
you consider that the processing does not comply with
current legislation, you can complain with the super-
visory authority at www. aepd.es . Condentiality. -
The content of this communication, as well as that of
all the attached documentation, is condential and is
addressed to the addressee. If you are not the recipi-
ent, we request that you indicate this to us and do not
communicate its contents to third parties, proceeding
to its destruction. Disclaimer of liability. - The sending
of this communication does not imply any obligation
on the part of the sender to control the absence of
viruses, worms, Trojan horses and/or any other harmful
computer program, and it corresponds to the recipient
to have the necessary hardware and software tools to
guarantee both the security of its information system
and the detection and elimination of harmful computer
programs. TRANSMITTING SCIENCE SL shall not
be liable.
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.com >130 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Online Bioinformatics Jun20-24
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 3rd edition of the
Physalia Summer School in Bioinformatics.
Dates: Online, 20th-24th June
This course will introduce participants into the eld
of Next Generation Sequencing biology, understanding
both the concepts and handling of the data. We will
cover a broad range of software and analyses from quality
assessment of sequencing runs, through assembling and
annotating small genomes, RNAseq and dierential gene
expression, and phylogenomics with NGS data, using
both Illumina and long read dara (Nanopore/PacBio).
This course will be accompanied with sessions on the
use of the Linux command line, and docker which is
the preferred platform for most bioinformatic analy-
ses, as well as software containers, through Docker or
Singularity, with particular focus on best practices for
reproducibility.
Learning outcomes
Eectively handling NGS data comfortably and in a
reliable and reproducible manner
Understanding the strengths and pitfalls of NGS and
how to assess quality of data generation and analysis
Hands-on experience of state of the art methods to
use NGS in experiments across a range of approaches
(genomics, transcriptomics, phylogenomics)
Assessment of strengths and weaknesses of the dif-
ferent DNA sequencing technologies, both short read
(Illumina), and long reads (Pacic Bioscience,Oxford
Nanopore).
Familiarity with biological sequence analysis in an evo-
lutionary context
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course68/ )
Our other online courses: ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/ )All the best,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online LandscapeGenetics Aug15-19
ONLINE COURSE -Landscape genetic data analysis
using R
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/landscape-
genetic-data-analysis-using-r-lndg05/ 15th - 19th
August 2022
Please feelfree to share!
There is still 20% o all courses to celebrate the launch
of our new site.
https://www.prstatistics.com/live-courses/ https://-
www.prstatistics.com/recorded-courses/ ABOUT THIS
COURSE
The term 'landscape genetics' has been applied studies
that integrate ecological context and intervening land-
scape into population genetic analyses of contemporary
processes such as gene ow and migration. This course
will cover the basics of both quantitative landscape
ecology and population genetics, focusing on how we
develop and evaluate spatial/genetic analyses using the
R platform.
We will also be scheduling one of our FREE course semi-
nars for this course soon, if you would like to be notied
of this please email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com Along
with our new website launch we are also introducing
some new products and services one of which are FREE
course seminars. Each course seminar is based on the
course, they are ~30 minutes long including a Q and A
session, and will be delivered by the course instructor.
Anyone is welcome, even if you have no intention of
joining the paid course later on! This is a great way to
get a FREE insight into the courses we deliver, to ask
the instructors some questions, and to get a better idea
of suitability if any of the courses interest you. All of
our Free Course Seminars will be archived and made
available so if you cannot join live you can request access
to the recordings.
https://www.prstatistics.com/free-seminars/ Please
feel free to contactoliverhooker@prstatistics.comwith
any questions.
We still oer our consultancy services but now also oer
private tuition and manuscript revisions.April 1, 2022 EvolDir 131
https://www.prstatistics.com/additional-products-
services/If you have any questions please email
oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
Thanks,
Oliver Hooker PhD. PR statistics
oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
Online LandscapeGenomics
Jun13-17
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 6th edition of the Land-
scape Genomics course.
Dates and time: online - June, 13th-17th
15:00 - 18:00 (Berlin time): live lectures and introduc-
tion to / review of the practicals4 additional hours:
self-guided practicals using annotated R scripts, with
live online support from 09:00 to 23:00 (Berlin time)
The course will provide an overview of the type of dataset
that can be used for a landscape genomics analysis.
Firstly, students will learn how to obtain environmental
data from publicly available databases, how to process
it with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and how
to use the latter to produce indicators able to describe
the characteristics of the landscape. Next, the course
will discuss the dierent approaches to obtain genetic
data and subsequently show how to study genetic vari-
ation and population structure across space in the R
environment. Students will be given an overview of the
dierent statistical approaches to study local adapta-
tion, and will be trained in using two of them, Sambada
and LFMM. The course will also cover the critical task
of the interpretation and validation of the results. Fi-
nally, the course will consider the crucial aspects and
good habits to account for when planning a landscape
genomics experiment (e.g. sampling design).
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course17/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online Metabarcoding Apr4-May1
Metabarcoding http://uoguel.ph/metabarcoding April
4 - May 1, 2022
Online
Instructor: Dr. Dirk Steinke
Shara
Shara InotayjManager, Program Development Open
Learning and Educational Support lUniversity of Guelph
Room010 Johnston Hall l 50 Stone Road E lGuelph
ON N1G 2W1 T: 519-824-4120 ext.52913 jE: sino-
tay@uoguelph.ca jwww.opened.uoguelph.ca Shara Ino-
tay<sinotay@uoguelph.ca >
Online Metagenomics Jun13-17
Dear all,
registration is now open for the 5th edition
of the course \Metagenomics, metatranscriptomics,
and multi'omics for microbial community studies":
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course33/ )
Dates: online, 13th-17th June
This course will provide a thorough introduction to mi-
crobial community data analysis (metagenomics, meta-
transcriptomics, and other culture-independent molecu-
lar data) through a balanced approach of lectures and
hands-on lab sessions. Course participants will learn
how to process data from raw meta'omic sequencing
les through appropriate bioinformatic methods and ap-
proaches for subsequent integrative statistical analyses.
Participants are invited to bring their own data to the
practical session on the nal day or can use publicly
available data from the Integrative Human Microbiome
Project (HMP2).
Here is the full list of our courses and workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )132 EvolDir April 1, 2022
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
Online Palaeogenomics May16-20
Dear evoldir members,
Transmitting Science is running the LIVE ONLINE
course 'Introduction to palaeogenomics - concepts, meth-
ods and applications of ancient human and non-human
DNA data'.
Instructors: Dr. Marcela Sandoval Velsaco (Universidad
Nacional Aut onoma de M exico Mexico) Dr. Jazm n
Ramos-Madrigal (University of Copenhagen, Denmark)
Dates & Times: May 16th-20th, 2022 16:00-21:00
(Madrid time)
Preliminary programme:
1. Introduction to ancient DNA and palaeogenomics -
History and development of the eld. Contamination
and degradation of DNA. Best practices and sampling
strategies. Ethical implications of aDNA research 2.
Laboratory methods - DNA extraction. Library prepa-
ration methods (ds, ss, BEST, BEMT, SC). Sequencing
strategies. Best practices. 3. Data preprocessing, par-
ticularities of ancient DNA data and basic data quality
statistics. 4. Standard and alternative mapping strate-
gies. Overview of palaeogenomics analysis pipelines (e.g.
paleomix and eager). Selection of reference genome.
Reference bias and strategies to overcome it. 5. aDNA
authentication. Damage, error rates and contamina-
tion analysis. 6. Analysis of low coverage data using
Angsd (potential strategies using genotype likelihoods
and pseudo-haploid data) 7. Broad ancestry estimation
using NGS tools. Clustering strategies (PCA, Admix-
ture). Phylogenomics (Treemix) 8. Introduction to
F-statistics (D-statistics, F3) and Admixture graphs.
For more information and registration: https:/-
/www.transmittingscience.com/courses/genetics-
and-genomics/introduction-to-palaeogenomics-
concepts-methods-and-applications-of-ancient-dna-
data/ Contact: courses@transmittingscience.com
<haris.saslis@transmittingscience.com >
All the best,Haris Saslis, PhD (he/him) Course Coordinator Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.com Haris
Saslis <haris.saslis@gmail.com >
Online
ReproducibilityInBioinformatics
Jul11-13
Dear all,
registration is now open for the Physalia course
Reproducibility in Bioinformatics: ( https:/-
/www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
bioinformatics-reproducibility/ )
Online, 11-13 July 2022 This course aims at increasing
awareness and introduces strategies on how to improve
reproducibility in bioinformatic analyses. Through a
mixture of theoretical blocks and hands-on exercises the
instructors will guide participants to develop skills to
increase reproducibility of bioinformatic analyses and
workows using containers, versioning and virtual envi-
ronments. LEARNING OUTCOMES - Basic concepts
and techniques for modern reproducible bioinformatics
data analyses - Data organization, documentation and
software versioning - Setting up and working in vir-
tual software environments - Software containerization
strategies and caveats - how to use and build containers -
Knowledge of how to use common workow management
systems
Best regards, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online RNAseq Apr4-7
The University of Connecticut's Computational Biology
Core is oering a workshop on RNA-seq focused on iden-
tifying dierentially expressed genes using an existing
reference genome and annotation.
The workshop will begin with an introduction to highApril 1, 2022 EvolDir 133
performance computing using Linux and SLURM, and
then cover data quality control, read mapping, quanti-
cation of expression, obtaining annotation data from the
Ensembl database, exploratory and statistical analysis
of expression data and functional enrichment analysis.
All scripts will be provided in a public git repository,
and recordings of each session will be made available to
participants after each day's session.
The workshop will take place over 4 days for three hours
each day.
Dates: April 4 - 7 (4 days)
Time (US Eastern): M: 8:30am-12pm T-W-Th: 9.00am
- 12.00pm
Location: Online
Cost: $350 for UConn aliates, $475 external
Workshop schedule
Day 1: Introduction to Linux, High performance com-
puting
Day 2: QC, mapping, generating count data
Day 3-4 : Exploratory analysis/QC, statistical analysis,
functional enrichment.
Registration
To register, please follow this link: https://forms.gle/-
daCLSmFtDhJQ7ndQA Workshop FAQ
Who should attend?
Anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of RNA-
seq. Prior course participants have included faculty, post
docs, grad students, advanced undergraduates, sta, and
industry researchers.
What are the prerequisites?
Prior bioinformatic experience is not required. We have
dedicated the rst day of workshop to the basics of
Linux and high performance computing.
What do I need?
You will need your own laptop to use, have a recent
version of R, RStudio installed, and some other ap-
plications. We will send you details of software and
installation instructions with your registration acknowl-
edgement email.
Can I bring my own data?
We will provide experimental datasets for use during
the workshop, as this helps to keep the workshop mov-
ing. There will be time, however, to discuss your own
datasets and how you might work with them outside of
the workshop.How much does it cost?
The registration fee is $350/$475 for UConn
aliated/non-UConn participants.
How do I pay?
The fee is due at the time of registration. UConn af-
liates can use KFS accounts. The only other means
of payment we currently accept is credit card. Due to
some complications we cannot accept international wire
transfers at this time.
Where is the workshop?
It will be held on Zoom, and will run from 9:00am to
12:00pm on the dates indicated.
How do I apply?
All registration is \rst-come, rst-served." There is
no application process. Sign up as soon as possible to
ensure your place in the workshop.
Do you oer scholarships or tuition waivers?
Yes. For each workshop we oer waivers to up to two
attendees without other funding sources. Preference
will be given to students from primarily undergraduate
institutions, from countries classied by the World Bank
as low or middle-income, and those from underrepre-
sented groups. Applicants for waivers may submit a one
paragraph justication to cbcsupport@uconn.edu.
Questions?
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to con-
tact us at cbcsupport@uconn.edu
Noah Reid noah.reid@uconn.edu
Assistant Research Professor Institute for Systems Ge-
nomics University of Connecticut
\Reid, Noah" <noah.reid@uconn.edu >134 EvolDir April 1, 2022
SantaBarbara PolygenicAdaptation
Jun13-Jul15
We still have some open slots-if you are interested, please
register at:
https://www.kitp.ucsb.edu/activities/adapt22 only ap-
plications received before the end of March will receive
full consideration.
Towards an Integrative View of Adaptation: Bridging
Population and Quantitative Genetics
Coordinators: Alison Etheridge, Kavita Jain, Christian
Schl otterer, and Naomi Wray
Location: KITP Santa Barbara, California
Dates: Jun 13, 2022 - Jul 15, 2022
https://www.kitp.ucsb.edu/activities/adapt22 The
study of adaptive evolution in molecular population
genetics and quantitative genetics have remained rather
isolated disciplines despite the shared research theme.
While quantitative genetics describes adaptation of
quantitative traits as a collective eect due to small
shifts in the allele frequencies of a large number of un-
derlying genetic loci (polygenic adaptation), molecular
population genetics has focused on adaptation due to a
small number of favorable loci in which the allele frequen-
cies sweep to xation. The connection between these
two areas became possible when molecular markers were
introduced. Since then Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL)
mapping and, more recently, Genome-Wide Association
Studies (GWAS) developed into powerful approaches
to link phenotypes of interest with their genetic basis.
Furthermore, stochastic models of evolution that bor-
row techniques from statistical physics provided a link
between the bottom-up and top- down approaches in
understanding adaptive dynamics. As a result, it is now
becoming increasingly clear that both \sweeps" and
\small shifts" are rather the endpoints of a scale than
exclusive alternatives.
This program will bring together theoreticians and em-
piricists to develop the basis for a unied framework of
adaptive genetic architectures. The new framework will
integrate molecular population genetics and quantitative
genetics, addressing three main questions:
1. What are the dierent adaptive scenarios that need
to be distinguished and what are their dening charac-
teristics?2. What are the key factors that determine these sce-
narios?
3. How can we develop powerful statistical tests to
detect polygenic adaptation from empirical data?
KITP programs provide a fantastic opportunity for sci-
entic exchange and interdisciplinary collaboration.
A typical day starts with 2 lectures and includes ample
opportunity for discussion. In the afternoon we will have
discussion groups and workshops on specic subtopics
as well as bottom up activities of the participants. Long-
term participants will be provided oce space at KITP.
The scientic activities will be accompanied by joint
social events such as BBQ, wine tasting or beach vol-
leyball. Social and scientic interactions are facilitated
with many long-term participants staying at the Munger
Physics Residence.
Because the program encourages scientists to stay as
long as possible, KITP has several family friendly mea-
sures in place ( https://www.kitp.ucsb.edu/visitors/-
before-your-visit/family-fund).
We are aiming to gather a stimulating group of par-
ticipating scientists covering the full spectrum from
theoreticians to experimentalists. Female scientists and
representatives of minority groups are particularly en-
couraged to apply.
Christian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390 http:/-
/www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/ Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at I am using google tools for
communication
Christian Schl otterer <schlotc@gmail.com >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 135
Smithsonian MeiofaunaDiversity
Jun13-14
2022 Smithsonian Marine Station (SMS) Meiofauna Di-
versity and Taxonomy Workshop
Dates: June 13-24, 2022
Location: Smithsonian Marine Station in Fort Pierce,
FL
Cost: Free!
Application deadline: March 15, 2022
Website: https://www.kocotlab.com/meiofauna-
diversity-and-taxonomy-workshops.html Organizers:
Kevin Kocot - University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Ashleigh Smythe - Virginia Military Institute
Mentors:
Rick Hochberg - University of Massachusetts Lowell -
Gastrotricha & Rotifera
Oleksandr Holovachov - Swedish Museum of Natural
History - Nematoda & scientic illustration
Ulf Jondelius - Swedish Museum of Natural History -
Acoela & (some) Platyhelminthes
Kevin Kocot - University of Alabama Tuscaloosa - Mol-
lusca, Entoprocta, Hemichordata, & genomics Francesca
Leasi - University of Tennessee Chattanooga - Rotifera
& metagenetics/metagenomics
Ashleigh Smythe - Virginia Military Institute - Nema-
toda
Background:
The term \meiofauna" refers to tiny animals capable
of passing through a ~0.5-mm mesh. Many meiofau-
nal animals are interstitial, meaning they burrow in
marine sediments. Several entire phyla (such as ki-
norhynchs, gastrotrichs, and gnathostomulids), major
clades of other invertebrate phyla (especially arthropods,
nematodes, annelids and atworms), and miniaturized
representatives of most other animal phyla are meiofau-
nal. Meiofaunal animals have been estimated to account
for half of the biodiversity in complex biotopes such as
coral reefs, with most of it associated with sediments.
While the great phylum- and class- level diversity of
meiofauna is well-known, the species-level diversity re-
mains largely unexplored and undocumented. By someestimates, the number of species of meiofaunal nema-
todes alone that waiting to be formally named dwarfs
the number of already described meiofaunal species by
two orders of magnitude. Morphological studies of meio-
fauna have led to groundbreaking insights about their
evolution, adaptation, and functional biology (e.g., ad-
hesive and sensory structures), as well as fundamental
insights into the evolution of the major animal groups
in the tree of life. More recently, advances in molecular
biology ranging from DNA barcoding to metabarcoding
to whole-genome sequencing have accelerated the pace
of the study of all aspects of the biology of meiofauna.
Course description:
The overarching goal of this course is to help train
the next generation of marine invertebrate taxonomists.
Specically, the course is designed to familiarize partic-
ipants with the vast biodiversity of marine meiofauna
through eld and laboratory work. We will take a
taxon-survey approach to emphasize the development or
enhancement of practical skills essential for collection,
identication, characterization, preservation, and molec-
ular analysis of meiofauna. Sampling of diverse habitats
near Fort Pierce (e.g., Capron Shoal and local beaches)
and the Florida Keys (e.g., coral reefs, rubble elds,
mangroves, and beaches) will provide a wealth of speci-
mens of diverse taxa for our investigations. Note that
SCUBA-certied participants will have the opportunity
to dive recreationally in the Florida Keys at their own
expense/risk, but the course will not involve scientic
diving.
Morphological laboratory work will emphasize the prepa-
ration of specimens for microscopic examination and
sorting to the level possible with light microscopy. Par-
ticipants will have the opportunity to collect specimens
of meiofaunal animals for their own research (if desired).
Participants will also be expected to help compile and
contribute specimens for DNA barcoding and transcrip-
tome sequencing (see below), species lists, images, and
metadata that will be released public databases.
Molecular laboratory work will include training in basic
molecular lab skills and DNA barcoding for participants
not already familiar with these techniques. Subsequently,
participants will learn transcriptome (cDNA) and se-
quencing library preparation techniques that can be
used on single meiofaunal animals. Each participant
will have the opportunity to sequence at least one tran-
scriptome of an organism of interest as part of the course
(data will unfortunately not be available until after the
course is over).
Due to space constraints, the course is limited to just 8
students. We use the term \student" broadly and will
consider applicants at diverse career stages interested in136 EvolDir April 1, 2022
studying meiofauna. Please note that more workshops
are planned for other locations in the next couple of
years so there will be other opportunities for applicants
not able to join this workshop in the near future.
How to apply:
Send your CV and a 1-2 page statement describing your
background and reasons for applying to take the course
to Dr. Kevin Kocot at kmkocot@ua.edu before March
15, 2022. Please be sure to describe your
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SummerInstStatGenetics
EvolGenetics Jul11-29
From: Bruce S Weir Sent: Tuesday, March 15, 2022
1:59 PM To: Golding@McMaster.CA Subject: SISG
Registartion and Scholarship applications now open
Registration is now open for the 28th edition of the
Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics, July 11-29.
This is a series of half-week on-line courses cover-
ing many areas of evolutionary, population and quan-
titative genetics. Details are available at https://-
si.biostat.washington.edu/about/sisg Graduate students
attending US institutions may also apply for scholar-
ships for up to three modules.
Bruce Bsweir@uw.edu
Bruce S Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
UPorto PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
May9-13
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce that a Training and
Research Workshop in \Evolutionary genomics for
plant models and crops" will take place at CIBIO-
InBIO/BIOPOLIS, Campus de Vair ao, University of
Porto, Portugal,from 9 to 13 May 2022.This workshop is meant for PhD students but will also
be opened to Master students and post-docs. It will
present major on-going research topics in plant evolu-
tionary genomics, covering both methodological and
biological questions, fundamental and applied perspec-
tives, model plants and crops.
Each theme (day) will be covered by 2 talks given by
international specialistsand a round table with both
speakers moderated by an in-house researcher from the
eld.
Talks will be 1h30 research-oriented lectures (with 30
min of a general/large scope introduction on the sub-
ject).
A lot of interaction is expected during these lectures:
questions will be asked during the talks and at the round
table.
The workshop is also meant to be a platform for con-
necting students and labs in this eld, internationally.
Registration: Priority will be given for phD students of
Program (FCUP and FCUL) and from the University
of Montpellier, but students from all over the world are
most welcome.
Registration deadline: March 31, 2022
All applicants will be notied about whether they are
accepted until April 6, 2022 95 euro (students) j200
euro (other participants)
Participation is free of charge for BIODIV and Univ.
of Montpellier students. The program, practical
information and registration platform can be found
here: https://cibio.up.pt/en/events/training-and-
research-workshop-in-evolutionary-genomics-for-plant-
models-and-crops/ If you have any questions you may
contact us by mail at: post.graduation@cibio.up.pt
Best regards,
Raquel Tavares
Raquel Tavares Principal Investigator
Associa c ao BIOPOLIS CIBIO - Centro deInvestiga c ao
emBiodiversidade e RecursosGen eticos, Rua Padre Ar-
mando Quintasn ^Ao7j4485-661 Vair ao,PORTUGAL
Tel:+351 252 660 413 Mob: +351 960 328 063 +33 6 81
48 65 41
Raquel Tavares <raquel.tavares@cibio.up.pt >April 1, 2022 EvolDir 137
Vairao-Porto PlantGenomics
May9-13
The registration deadline is approaching (31 March) and
we still have some places left!
Dear all, We are pleased to announce that aTraining
and Research Workshop in \Evolutionary genomics
for plant models and crops" will take place at CIBIO-
InBIO/BIOPOLIS, Campus de Vair ao, University of
Porto, Portugal,from 9 to 13 May 2022. This workshop
is meant for PhD students but will also be opened to
Master students and post-docs. Itwill present major
on-going research topics in plant evolutionary genomics,
covering both methodological and biological questions,
fundamental and applied perspectives, model plants
and crops. Each theme (day) will be covered by 2 talks
given byinternational specialistsand a round table with
both speakers moderated by an in-house researcher from
the eld. Talks will be 1h30 research-oriented lectures
(with 30 min of a general/largescope introduction on
the subject). A lot of interaction is expected duringthese lectures: questions will be asked during the talks
and at the round table. The workshop is also meant
to be a platform for connecting students and labs in
this eld, internationally. Registration: Priority will
be given for phD students of Program (FCUP and
FCUL) and from the University of Montpellier, but
students from all over the world are most welcome.
Registration deadline: March 31, 2022 All applicants
will be notied about whether they are accepted until
April 6, 2022 95 euro (students) j200 euro (other
participants) Participation is free of charge for BIODIV
and Univ. of Montpellier students. The program,
practical information and registration platform can be
found here:https://cibio.up.pt/en/events/training-and-
research-workshop-in-evolutionary-genomics-for-plant-
models-and-crops/ Ifyou have any questions you may
contact us by mail at:post.graduation@cibio.up.pt
Best regards, Raquel Tavares
Raquel Tavares Principal Investigator
Associa c ao BIOPOLIS CIBIO - Centro deInvestiga c ao
emBiodiversidade e RecursosGen eticos, Rua Padre Ar-
mando Quintasn ^Ao7j4485-661 Vair ao,PORTUGAL
Tel:+351 252 660 413 Mob: +351 960 328 063
+33 6 81 48 65 41
Raquel Tavares <raquel.tavares@cibio.up.pt >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category138 EvolDir April 1, 2022
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.