E v o l D i r
June 1, 2010
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Conferences
AMNH NewYork StudentConservation Nov3-5 . . . . . . 2
Ankara BeePopulationGenetics Sep7-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Beijing PlantSystematics Jul7-9 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Brittany SocialEvolution Oct11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Heidelberg ExperimentalEvolution Sep29-Oct3 . . . . . 4
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics Jul26-28 2 . . . . . . 5
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics Jul26-28 Dorm-
Rooms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics Jul26-28 Student-
Grants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
KansasCity Genomics Nov5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
LaurentianU OEEC Jul14-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
LeedsU EvolutionSociety Sep7-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Madison Florida SEPEEG Oct8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Norman Oklahoma SSB Jun17-21 CallSymposia . . . . 8Oregon PhylogeneticsEvolutionInformatics Jun29-30 8
RutgersU EvolutionaryPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . 10
RutgersU EvolutionaryPopulationGenetics FixedURL
10
Switzerland EvolEcolGenomicsAdaptation Sept2-3 11
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25 CallSymposia . . . . . 12
UCaliforniaLosAngeles GenomicDiversity Jul22-24 . 13
UColorado HumanGenomicDiversity Jul22-24 . . . . . 13
ULaval CanSocEcolEvol May9-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
ULisbon PolyploidEvolution Nov11-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UOttawa ComparativeGenomics Oct9-11 . . . . . . . . . . 15
UOxford Avian July . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
WoodsHole CytochromeBiodiversity Oct3-7 . . . . . . . 17
AMNH NewYork
StudentConservation Nov3-5
2010 STUDENT CONFERENCE ON CONSER-
VATION SCIENCE (SCCS-NY) American Museum
of Natural History New York City 3-5 November
2010 http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/ APPLI-
CATIONS BEING ACCEPTED THROUGH 18 MAY
2010
In November 2010, the American Museum of Natural
Historyˆ as Center for Biodiversity and Conservation will
host SCCS-NY, the Student Conference on Conserva-
tion Science in New York City. Designed for graduate
students, recent post-doctoral fellows, and early-career
professionals, the conference speciﬁcally targets those
pursuing or considering a profession in conservation sci-
ence.
This conference is a unique opportunity for those begin-
ning their careers to present their work before leaders in
science, policy, and management. In addition to formal
presentations, there will be numerous opportunities to
interact with established conservation professionals at
workshops, informal gatherings, and networking events.SCCS-NY is sponsored by the American Museum of
Natural Historyˆ as Center for Biodiversity and Con-
servation, the Wildlife Conservation Society, and Yale
School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, in col-
laboration with the Bard Center for Environmental
Policy, Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Fordham Uni-
versity, Mason Center for Conservation Studies, The
Nature Conservancy, New York Botanical Garden,
Princeton University, Richard Gilder Graduate School,
Rutgersˆ aThe State University of New Jersey, SCCS-
Cambridge, the State University of New York College
of Environmental Science and Forestry, and Wildlife
Trust.
SCCS-NY is a sister conference to the highly successful
SCCS-Cambridge, begun in 2000 by the University of
Cambridge, and the newly developed SCCS-Bangalore.
GUEST SPEAKERS
Sir Peter Crane, Ph.D. - Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean
of the School of Forestry & Environmental Studies and
Professor of Botany, Yale University, New Haven, Con-
necticut
James Gibbs, Ph.D. ˆ a Professor and Associate Chair,
Department of Environmental and Forest Biology,
State University of New York College of Environmental
Science and Forestry, Syracuse, New YorkJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 3
Joshua Ginsberg, Ph.D. - Senior Vice President, Global
Conservation Program, Wildlife Conservation Society,
Bronx, New York
Andr ˜Ac/circlecopyrts G˜A3mez, D.V.M., Ph.D. - Postdoctoral Fel-
low, Center for Biodiversity and Conservation, Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, New York, New York
Martha Groom, Ph.D. - Associate Professor of Ecology
and Environmental Studies, University of Washington
Bothell & Seattle, Washington
MENTORING TASKFORCE Dozens of conservation
professionals will be on hand during the conference
to provide personalized feedback, lead workshops, host
working lunches, and oﬀer networking ideas. (See the
website for a list of conﬁrmed participants http://-
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/ .)
WORKSHOPS A series of workshops will be oﬀered
by experts working in diverse aspects of conservation
science and education. Topics will include:
1) Ecological risk analysis for conservation biology 2)
Conservation Action Planning: developing conserva-
tion strategies for applied conservation projects 3) Ad-
vances in monitoring and quantitative ecology in con-
servation science 4) Expanding your teaching toolbox:
an introduction to active and scientiﬁc teaching ap-
proaches 5) Modeling ecological niches and geographic
distributions: what, why and how¿‘
WHO SHOULD APPLY Those wishing to participate
in SCCS-NY should have completed, or be conducting
a research project in any conservation-related course of
study within the natural sciences, social sciences, or hu-
manities. Selection for participation will be based on
the quality of oneˆ as application as well as its relevance
to conservation. Applications are encouraged from the
following:
Graduate Students Recent Post-Doctoral Fellows
Early-Career Professionals Undergraduates (research
project must be of thesis-level quality)
TO APPLY, please go to http://-
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/ DEADLINE: 18
May 2010
Fiona Brady <brady@amnh.org >
Ankara BeePopulationGenetics
Sep7-9Ankara Bee Genetics and Genomics
Sep 7-9
Dear Evoldir readers,
We still have some slots available in our sym-
posium “Bee Genetics and Genomics” at the 4th
European Conference of Apidology EurBee 2010
in Ankara, Turkey (7-9 September 2010, http://-
www.eurbee2010.org/ ). The symposium will bring to-
gether researchers working on diﬀerent aspects of genet-
ics and genomics of bees. We are aiming at integrat-
ing diﬀerent aspects of genetics and genomics including
comparative genomic analysis, expression studies, QTL
mapping, breeding genetics, neurogenetics, population
genetics. Invited speaker is Guy Bloch. Below you ﬁnd
the description of our symposium. The deadline for ab-
stract submission is 24 May 2010 and the deadline for
registration (early bird) is 20 July 2010.
Honeybees already have entered the stage of being a
model organism for genomic research, at least since
the publication of the complete genome sequence in
2006. However, with ongoing development in sequenc-
ing techniques other social insects will follow the honey-
bee opening the door for comparative approaches, es-
pecially with regard to the peculiarities of social in-
sects like caste determination and diﬀerentiation. The
bumblebee, Bombus terrestris will be the second bee
with a complete genome sequence available. As costs
for sequencing projects will drop, more species will be
selected for whole genome sequencing. As for both,
honeybees and bumblebees, as well as for other polli-
nators rapid declines have been reported and parasites
have been claimed to be the major driver for pollina-
tor decline, genomic research may help to disentangle
the basics for host-parasite interaction in social insects.
Genomic research in social insects ranges from genome
and transcriptome sequencing to linkage map construc-
tion and mapping of candidate genes for speciﬁc traits.
QTLs have been identiﬁed for disease resistance, hy-
gienic behaviour, foraging behaviour and ovary develop-
ment amongst others. Transcriptome diﬀerences have
been studied in relation to division of labour, disease
resistance and caste determination.
Names and contact information of the organizers:
Michael Lattorﬀ Institute for Biology, Molec-
ular Ecology Martin-Luther-University Halle-
Wittenberg, Germany 06099 Halle, Germany Email:
lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-halle.de
C´ edric Alaux INRA, UMR 406 Abeilles et Environ-
nement Laboratoire Biologie et Protection de l’abeille
Site Agroparc, Domaine Saint-Paul 84914 AVIGNON
Cedex 9, France email: cedric.alaux@avignon.inra.fr4 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Dr. Michael Lattorﬀ Institute of Biology, Molecular
Ecology Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg
Hoher Weg 4 06099 Halle (Saale) Germany phone.
+49-345-5526389 fax. +49-345-5527264 email.
lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-halle.de www. http://-
www.biologie.uni-halle.de/zool/mol ecol/ Michael
Lattorﬀ <lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-halle.de >
Beijing PlantSystematics Jul7-9 3
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON NEW
FRONTIERS IN PLANT SYSTEMATIC S AND
EVOLUTION - JULY 7-9, 2010, BEIJING, CHINA
This conference aims at providing an opportunity for
plant systematists and evolutionary biologists to re-
view the progress, evaluate the current status, and
look into the future of the ﬁeld. It will include talks,
posters, and open discussions on recent progress and
future directions of the following areas: 1) Taxonomy,
collections, and databases; 2) Phylogenetics, phyloge-
nomics, and the Tree of Life; 3) Biogeography and phy-
logeography; 4) Speciation, hybridization, and adap-
tation; 5) Molecular evolution, evolutionary genetics
and genomics, and Evo-Devo. There will be 40 in-
vited talks from worldwide experts in each of these ar-
eas. The conference will be held at the Fragrant Hill
(Xiangshan), one of Beijing’s most famous scenic and
historical sites near the precious royal garden. It is
within walking distance to the Beijing Botanical Gar-
den and the Institute of Botany.The conference is orga-
nized by the Botanical Society of China (BSC), the Chi-
nese Academy of Sciences (CAS), and the International
Association for Plant Taxonomy (IAPT).For more in-
formation, please visit: www.syst-evol.cn . Qiu-Yun
(Jenny) Xiang Associate Professor Department of Plant
Biology North Carolina State University Raleigh,NC
27695-7612 919-515-2728 (phone) 919-515-3436 (Fax)
Jenny xiang@ncsu.edu http://www4.ncsu.edu/ ˜ qyxi-
ang qyxiang@ncsu.edu
Brittany SocialEvolution Oct11-15
Dear colleagues,
*Registration still open!*We organize a conference on “Social systems: demo-
graphic and genetic issues” next October (11-15 ^th )
in Paimpont, Brittany, France. We propose the confer-
ence to be organized around 2 major themes:
1. /Social organization and demographic structure/ –
The inﬂuence of philopatry, polygyny, dispersal bias
among sexes, natal sex ratio, social reproductive sup-
pression, kin selection and kin discrimination, on de-
mographic structure
2. /Social organization and genetic structure/ –The ef-
fects of social organization and group dynamics, the role
of group ﬁssion, ﬁssion-fusion social systems, sex biased
dispersal, the inﬂuence of dominance rank (lineages or
individuals), mate choice on the distribution of relat-
edness and gene diversity of neutral and functional (for
instance MHC) genes. The conference will mix theoret-
ical and empirical approaches, scientiﬁc questions with
methodological issues.
The conference will be limited to about 75 people,
with space for about forty oral communications and for
posters. We invite people who wish to communicate at
the conference to send us a tentative title for an oral
communication or a poster before May 31 ^st .
Organization and registration details including a pro-
visional program can be found on http://socior.univ-
rennes1.fr/ Nelly M´ enard 1, Nicolas Perrin 2, Eric Petit
1 & Jean-S´ ebastien Pierre 1
1 Department for the study of Ecology, Biodiversity
and Evolution at the University of Rennes 1 and CNRS
(National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research, France)
– Nelly M´ enard, UMR 6553 ECOBIO, Ecosyst` eme, Bio-
diversit´ e, Evolution; CNRS/Universit´ e de Rennes 1;
Station Biologique 35380 Paimpont-France;
http://www.sbp.univ-rennes1.fr http://ecobio.univ-
rennes1.fr/ tel: 02.99.61.81.72; from abroad: 33.2.99
etc... mail: nelly.menard@univ-rennes1.fr
Heidelberg ExperimentalEvolution
Sep29-Oct3
EMBO Conference Series Experimental Approaches to
Evolution and Ecology using Yeast EMBL Heidelberg,
Germany
Wednesday 29 September - Sunday 3 October 2010
The cellular and molecular basis of life is the outcomeJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 5
of a long process of evolution governed by variation and
selection. The intention of this conference series is to
explore the concept of using yeast as a model system
in evolution and ecology, building on our deep under-
standing of its physiology and genetics, and taking ad-
vantage of sophisticated techniques to manipulate the
yeast cell. It shall concentrate on four core issues in
evolutionary biology:
1. The overall architecture of the genome and the ma-
jor processes that have contributed to its evolution. 2.
The ecological and genetic structure of natural popula-
tions that forms the stage on which this evolution has
taken place. 3. The mechanisms of selection that lead
to adaptation, and in particular how these can be stud-
ied experimentally in the laboratory. 4. The use of
yeast to illuminate important problems in adaptation,
especially the evolution of sex and mating systems.
The conference series aims to bring scientists engaged
in technology development together with evolutionary
biologists, population geneticists and classical cell biol-
ogists and geneticists in order to explore experimental
strategies to study the mechanisms and design princi-
ples of evolution.
Kind regards,
Nicki Vegiopoulos Marketing Oﬃcer
European Molecular Biology Laboratory Course and
Conference Oﬃce Meyerhofstr. 1 D-69117 Heidelberg
Tel: +49-6221-387 8764 Fax: +49-6221-387 8158
Please visit www.embl.org/events for a complete
list of all EMBL events Please subscribe at
www.embl.de/events/newsletter for our newsletter
Follow us on www.twitter.com/embl events and
www.friendfeed.com/embl
Nicola Vegiopoulos <nicola.vegiopoulos@embl.de >
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics
Jul26-28 2
Our program is complete and registration is open!
http://www.theaga.org/2010 The American Genetic
Association will hold its annual meeting in Hilo, Hawaii
from 26-28 July, 2010.
AGA meetings focus on a single topic and last for 2.5
days. This year’s topic is Conservation Genomics, and
will include talks by a series of genomicists and conser-vation biologists, including those who are already shap-
ing this emerging discipline. Our goal is to provide a
focused forum for discussion, brainstorming, and devel-
opment of collaborative eﬀorts that leverage emerging
genomic resources for applications in conservation biol-
ogy.
Ollie Ryder, Director of Genetics, San Diego Zoo’s In-
stitute for Conservation Research, will give the Wil-
helmine Key Lecture.
To encourage broad attendance, we have kept registra-
tion low ($150), which includes an opening mixer and
evening luau. We have negotiated very reasonable hotel
accommodation in Hilo as well as dormitory space at
UH.
Funds are available, on a competitive basis, for student
registration and accommodation.
More details and registration are available at the meet-
ing website: http://www.theaga.org/2010 Please join
us- Hilo is an amazing setting, and we look forward to
an engaging, enlightening three days.
Conference organized by Brad Shaﬀer
Any questions, contact:
Brad Shaﬀer mailto:hbshaﬀer@ucdavis.edu, President
of the AGA, or
Anjanette Baker mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu, Man-
aging Editor, Journal of Heredity
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics
Jul26-28 DormRooms
June 10 Deadline to reserve Dorm Rooms –
UH Hilo has dorm rooms available for any nights from
25-31 June. The housing is “apartment style”, with 2
bedrooms (each has two beds, and sleeps two people),
a common area, and a kitchen. The rate is $20/night
per person, and a one-time $10 fee for linens.
If you would like to stay in the dorms, please contact
Brad Shaﬀer, mailto:hbshaﬀer@ucdavis.edu by Thurs-
day, June 10.
Symposium details and registration at: http://-
www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
topic and last for 2.5 days. This year’s topic is Conser-
vation Genomics, and will include talks by a series of6 EvolDir June 1, 2010
genomicists and conservation biologists, including those
who are already shaping this emerging discipline. Our
goal is to provide a focused forum for discussion, brain-
storming, and development of collaborative eﬀorts that
leverage emerging genomic resources for applications in
conservation biology.
To encourage broad attendance, we have kept registra-
tion low ($150), which includes an opening mixer and
evening luau. We have negotiated very reasonable hotel
accommodation in Hilo as well as dormitory space at
UH.
Please join us- Hilo is an amazing setting, and we look
forward to an engaging, enlightening three days.
Any questions, contact:
Brad Shaﬀer mailto:hbshaﬀer@ucdavis.edu, President
of the AGA, or
Anjanette Baker mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu, Man-
aging Editor, Journal of Heredity
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics
Jul26-28 StudentGrants
GRANTS FOR STUDENTS AND POSTDOCS
The American Genetic Association is oﬀering grants of
up to $400 to assist students and postdocs wishing to
attend the annual symposium.
To apply for a grant, please send 1) a short state-
ment indicating your position (undergraduate student/
graduate student/postdoc) and why you wish to at-
tend, and 2) a poster abstract to: Brad Shaﬀer hb-
shaﬀer@ucdavis.edu.
A brief supporting statement should be sent separately
by your advisor.
You must be an AGA member to apply for these
grants. Student membership is $20/year, and in-
cludes the online and print issues of the 2010
”Journal of Heredity”, as well as access to the
complete online archive (105 years!). To join,
go to: http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our journals/-
jhered/access purchase/price list.html Decisions and
notiﬁcation on grants will be made by June 1, 2010.
Symposium details and registration at: http://-
www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
topic and last for 2.5 days. This year’s topic is Conser-vation Genomics, and will include talks by a series of
genomicists and conservation biologists, including those
who are already shaping this emerging discipline. Our
goal is to provide a focused forum for discussion, brain-
storming, and development of collaborative eﬀorts that
leverage emerging genomic resources for applications in
conservation biology.
Ollie Ryder, Director of Genetics, San Diego Zoo’s In-
stitute for Conservation Research, will give the Wil-
helmine Key Lecture.
To encourage broad attendance, we have kept registra-
tion low ($150), which includes an opening mixer and
evening luau. We have negotiated very reasonable hotel
accommodation in Hilo as well as dormitory space at
UH.
Please join us- Hilo is an amazing setting, and we look
forward to an engaging, enlightening three days.
Conference organized by Brad Shaﬀer
Any questions, contact:
Brad Shaﬀer mailto:hbshaﬀer@ucdavis.edu, President
of the AGA, or
Anjanette Baker mailto:agajoh@oregonstate.edu, Man-
aging Editor, Journal of Heredity
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
KansasCity Genomics Nov5-7
8th Genomics Symposium, November 5 - 7, 2010, in
Kansas City
Save the dates.
and plan to attend the 8th Annual “Genes in Ecology,
Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 5, 6, & 7,
2010, in Kansas City. We will convene in the Muehle-
bach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City at 6:00
p.m. and conclude on Sunday at noon. Registration
will be opening soon!
Ecological Genomics is a ﬁeld at the interface of ecol-
ogy, evolution and genomics that seeks to place the
functional signiﬁcance of genes and genomics into an
ecological and evolutionary context.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2010
Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Speak-
ers and other information will soon be announced and
posted on our website, ecogen.ksu.edu, as details areJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 7
ﬁnalized.
POSTER SESSIONS: Poster sessions will be held on
Friday night and Saturday. Poster topics should be
related to the ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. A LIM-
ITED NUMBER OF SUBMITTED POSTER AB-
STRACTS WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRE-
SENTATIONS.
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students who are interested in learning more about
the ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. If you have ques-
tions, please contact us at (785) 532-3482 or dmer-
rill@ksu.edu.
Funding for this symposium is provided by the National
Science Foundation and Targeted Excellence at Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Directors:
Dr. Loretta Johnson
Dr. Michael Herman
Kansas State University, Division of Biology
Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS 66506-4901
(785) 532-3482, www.ecogen.ksu.edu dmerrill@ksu.edu
LaurentianU OEEC Jul14-16
The 40th Ontario Ecology and Ethology Colloquium
(OEEC) will be held July 14-16, 2010 at Laurentian
University, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada.
The OEEC is a two-day graduate student-run confer-
ence, intended to provide a supportive and enthusiastic
atmosphere for approximately 100 upper level under-
graduate students, graduate students, Post Docs and
faculty to present research and to facilitate networking
between institutions and people at all levels. Over the
past 40 years, the scope of the conference has increased
both geographically and conceptually, welcoming inter-
provincial and international speakers on subjects rang-
ing from ecology, evolutionary biology, physiology to
psychology.
For the 40th anniversary of the OEEC here at Lau-
rentian University, the planning committee has high
standards. Our goal is to create a truly signiﬁcant
conference experience for those who will be inﬂuenc-
ing the direction of scientiﬁc research. We are pairing
with Science North, an internationally recognized cen-
tre for public science education. We also plan to cre-ate a prominent presence for the many local groups in-
volved in the successful, yet ongoing, reclamation of the
Sudbury area in order to emphasize the link between
theoretical and applied research. To further support a
relationship between research and community, OEEC
will highlight eco-friendly fair-trade and local products
for all catering and amenities.
Registration Deadline - 1 June 2010
Abstract Deadline - 28 June 2010
Conference Dates - 14-16 July 2010
For further information and registration, visit our
website: http://oeec2010.jimdo.com/ and con-
tact the the 2010 OEEC Planning Committee at
oeec2010@laurentian.ca
dlesbarreres@laurentian.ca
LeedsU EvolutionSociety Sep7-9
The British Evolution Society Annual Meeting
7-9th September 2010, Leeds University, Leeds, UK
### Abstract Submission is Open ####
SUBMIT YOUR ABSTRACT NOW: DEADLINE
HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO MONDAY 10 MAY
http://abstracts.britishecologicalsociety.org/dass/-
login.php Ensure you are part of the programme that
includes renowned speakers such as ILKKA HANSKI,
ALAN COVICH and MICHEL LOREAU.
We are also pleased to announce that ANDREW
WATKINSON will be presenting the BES Lecture and
CHARLES GODFRAY will be giving the Presidential
Address.
And don’t miss our exciting set of Thematic sessions:
Thematic Topic 1 : On the synthesis of size- and
species- based approaches in community and ecosystem
ecology Organiser: Richard Law and Julia Blanchard
Thematic Topic 2 : Ecological Networks: community
robustness and persistence Organiser: Daniel B. Stouf-
fer
Thematic Topic 3 : Marine Renewable Energy: the
ecological implications of altering hydrodynamics Or-
ganiser: Mark Shields
Thematic Topic 4 : Understanding the impact of dis-
turbance on plant communities Organiser: Tim Baker,8 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Katy Roucoux, Geertje van der Heijden
Thematic Topic 5 : Promoting adaptation of species
to global environmental change Organiser: Jane Hill,
Chris D. Thomas and Barb Anderson
Thematic Topic 6 : Can species distribution modelling
be predictive? Organiser: Drew W. Purves and Greg
J. McInerny
Thematic Topic 7 : Advances in modelling ecological
data Organiser: Dylan Childs and David Murrell
For more information on abstract submission, booking
discounts, thematic topics and the venue, visit the An-
nual Meeting webpages.
http://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/meetings/-
current future meetings/2010 annual meeting/-
index.php a.beckerman@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Madison Florida SEPEEG Oct8-10
Colleagues in the southeastern US,
Early notice: Please mark your calendars for SEPEEG
2001: 8-10 October. SEPEEG is the Southeastern Pop-
ulation Ecology, Evolution, and Genetics meeting, to
be held this year at Camp Cherry Lake in Madison,
Florida. Details to follow.
Thanks, Charlie Baer & Marta Wayne
Charles F. Baer Department of Biology / University
of Florida Genetics Institute 621 Bartram Hall P. O.
Box 118525 University of Florida Gainesville, FL 32611-
8525 USA
Oﬃce: 352-392-3550 Lab: 352-273-0143 Fax:
352-392-3704 Email: cbaer@uﬂ.edu web: http:/-
/www.biology.uﬂ.edu/People/faculty/cbaer.aspx
cbaer@uﬂ.edu
Norman Oklahoma SSB Jun17-21
CallSymposia
SECOND ANNOUNCEMENT
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for Symposia for
the 2011 Annual MeetingThe Society of Systematic Biologists invites proposals
for symposia at the 2011 Evolution meeting to be held
in Norman, Oklahoma, from 17-21 June 2011. The
meeting will be held jointly with the American Society
of Naturalists and the Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion.
Proposals should include (1) a descriptive title, (2) one
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the sym-
posium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
presentations including proposed speakers, their insti-
tutions or aﬃliations, and their presentation titles, and
(4) an indication of whether the speakers have been
invited and whether they have agreed to participate.
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (6 half hour
talks). The society is particularly interested in sym-
posia whose topics do not overlap with those from pre-
vious meetings (see SSB website for past symposia),
that introduce new ideas or synthesize important con-
cepts, or those that are particularly good examples of
the analysis of empirical data. Proposals that unite
systematics with other ﬁelds are also desirable. We
encourage participation from young investigators and
others typically under-represented in symposia.
Proposals will be evaluated at the SSB Council meeting
during the 2010 annual meeting in Portland, Oregon.
Soon after, organizers will be notiﬁed of the status of
their proposals. Selected symposia will receive funds to
partially defer participant costs or honoraria.
Deadline: for full consideration, please submit propos-
als by June 15, 2010.
E-mail proposals (Word or PDF format) to the Pro-
gram Chairperson. Please use the subject heading: SSB
Symposium Proposal.
Kelly R. Zamudio Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853
Email: kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu Phone: 607 254 4212
The program chair will conﬁrm receipt of submitted
proposals, please inquire if you do not receive e-mail
conﬁrmation.
kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu
Oregon
PhylogeneticsEvolutionInformatics
Jun29-30
The Call for Software Bazaar entries is now open forJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 9
the inaugural conference on Informatics for Phylogenet-
ics, Evolution, and Biodiversity (iEvoBio), at http:/-
/ievobio.org/ocs/index.php/ievobio/ 2010. See below
for instructions.
The Software Bazaar features presenters demonstrating
their software live on a laptop. At iEvoBio, this session
takes the place of a poster session, and will be between
1.5-2 hours in duration. Conference attendees will be
able to walk from one demonstration to the next and
open a conversation with the presenters. Please also
see our FAQ for this information ( http://ievobio.org/-
faq.html#software ). The Software Bazaar is part of the
interactive afternoon program on the ﬁrst conference
day.
Entries should be software aimed at advancing research
in phylogenetics, evolution, and biodiversity, and can
include interactive visualizations that have been pre-
computed (such as SVGs, or Google Earth-compatible
KML ﬁles).
Submissions consist of a title, which will typically be the
name of the software (or visualization method) being
presented, the URL of a website where more informa-
tion about the software can be obtained, and the license
under which the source code is available. The provided
website must contain a link to where the source code
(and possibly binaries) can be downloaded. If it is not
obvious from the provided website, the submission must
describe what the software does. Reviewers will judge
whether a submission is within scope of the conference
(see above), and need to be able to verify whether the
open- source requirement(*) is met.
Presenters are expected to bring their own laptops for
presentation, and any auxiliary devices necessary (such
as a mouse). Power will be available at the presenta-
tion tables (110V/60Hz, US-style plugs; international
presenters need to bring a suitable adaptor). Please let
the organizing committee know as much in advance as
possible if you expect to have unusually high demands
for wireless network bandwidth. Note that commer-
cial marketing activities are not permitted - presenters
wishing to promote commercial or proprietary services
or products should contact the Evolution conference
about exhibitor space.
Review and acceptance of Software Bazaar submissions
will be on a rolling basis. The deadline for submission
is the morning of the ﬁrst day of the conference (June
29). As the number of Software Bazaar presentation
slots is ﬁnite, we cannot guarantee the availability of
slots up until the day of the conference. We cannot
accept submissions until the open-source requirements
are met.We ask all submitters of Software Bazaar presentations
to be willing to also serve as reviewers of such, as de-
scribed above.
Softwar Bazaar demonstrations are only 1 of 5 kinds
of contributed content that iEvoBio will feature. The
other 4 are: 1) Full talks (closed), 2) Lightning talks,
3) Challenge entries, and 4) Birds-of-a- Feather gath-
erings. The Calls for Challenge entries ( http://-
ievobio.org/challenge.html ) and Lightning Talks (same
submission URL as above) remain open, and informa-
tion on the Birds-of-a-Feather session is forthcoming.
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the confer-
ence’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/iEvoBio .
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolution-
ary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with
the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB). Additional
support has been provided by the Encyclopedia of Life
(EOL).
The iEvoBio 2010 Organizing Committee: Rod Page
(University of Glasgow) Cecile Ane (University of Wis-
consin at Madison) Rob Guralnick (University of Col-
orado at Boulder) Hilmar Lapp (NESCent) Cynthia
Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) Michael Sanderson (Uni-
versity of Arizona)
(*) iEvoBio and its sponsors are dedicated to promot-
ing the practice and philosophy of Open Source soft-
ware development (see http://www.opensource.org/-
docs/deﬁnition.php ) and reuse within the research com-
munity. For this reason, software to be demon-
strated to conference attendees must be licensed
with a recognized Open Source License (see http://-
www.opensource.org/ licenses/), and be available for
download, including source code, by a tar/zip ﬁle ac-
cessed through ftp/http or through a widely used ver-
sion control system like cvs, Subversion, git, Bazaar,
or Mercurial. Authors are advised that non-compliant
submissions must be
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
RutgersU
EvolutionaryPopulationGenetics10 EvolDir June 1, 2010
New Directions in Evolutionary and Population Genet-
ics
June 15-17, 2010
Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ
URL http://www.biomaps.rutgers.edu/-
index.php?option=com content&task=-
blogcategory&id=22&Itemidy Course Description
The course is a three-day intensive investigation of
evolutionary and population genetics. There will be
sessions covering new research directions in protein
evolution, human evolution, mathematical modeling
and evolutionary genetics of model organisms.
To attend please submit a Registration form. There is
no registration fee but registration is required. If you
have any questions on the Summer School, need travel
assistance, or help in arranging for hotel accommoda-
tions, please contact info@biomaps.rutgers.eduThis e-
mail address is being protected from spam bots, you
need JavaScript enabled to view it .
Inquiries - Please contact one of the organizers (emails
at bottom of this message).
Schedule of Speakers
June15, Tuesday Morning Session: “Protein Evolution”
9:30 - 10:15 AM: Jody Hey (Rutgers University) 10:15 -
11:00 AM: Wei Wang (UCSD) 11:00 - 11:45 AM: Kon-
stantin Zeldovich (UMass Medical School) 11:45 - 12:30
PM: Martin Weigt (Institute for Scientiﬁc Interchange)
12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Functional Selection” 2:00 - 2:45
PM: Robert Trivers (Rutgers University) 2:45 - 3:30
PM: Chang Chan (Institute for Advance Study) 3:30
-4:00 PM: Break 4:00 - 4:45 PM: Daniel Segre (Boston
University) 4:45 - 5:30 PM: Prashanth Ak (Institute for
Advance Study)
June 16, Wednesday Morning Session: “Mathemati-
cal Models” 9:30 - 10:15 AM: Joshua Plotkin (UPenn)
10:15 - 11:00 AM: John Wakeley (Harvard University)
11:00 - 11:45 AM: Sergio Lukic (Rutgers University)
11:45 - 12:30 PM: Sang-Chul Choi (Rutgers University)
12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Microbial Evolution” 2:00 - 2:45
PM: Joshua Rest (SUNY at Stony Brook) 2:45 - 3:30
PM: Paul Sniegowski (UPenn) 3:30 - 4:00 PM: Break
4:00 - 4:45 PM: Laura Landweber (Princeton Univer-
sity) 4:45 - 5:30 PM: Siobain Duﬀy (Rutgers University)
5:30 - 6:15 PM: Jesse Bloom (Cal Tech)
June 17, Thursday Morning Session: “Computational
Methods” 9:30 - 10:15 AM: Adam Siepel (Cornell Uni-
versity) 10:15- 11:00 AM: Jeﬀrey Townsend (Yale Uni-versity) 11:00- 11:45 AM: Itsik Pe’er (Columbia Uni-
versity) 11:45- 12:30 PM: Matthew Hahn (Indiana Uni-
versity) 12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Human and Model Organism Evo-
lution” 2:00 - 2:45 PM: Soojin Yi (Georgia Tech) 2:45 -
3:30 PM: Marcus Kronforst (Harvard University) 3:30 -
4:00 PM: Break 4:00 - 4:45 PM: Sarah Tishkoﬀ (UPenn)
4:45 - 5:30 PM: Matthew Rockman (NYU)
Location: Life Sciences Auditorium, Life Sci-
ences Building Busch Campus, Rutgers Univer-
sity, Piscataway, NJ Links for directions and
travel: http://maps.rutgers.edu/building.aspx?1085
http://maps.rutgers.edu/directions/nb.aspx
Organizers: Kevin Chen, Rutgers University: kc-
chen@biology.rutgers Gyan Bhanot, Rutgers Uni-
versity: gbhanot@rci.rutgers.edu Jody Hey, Rut-
gers University: hey@biology.rutgers.edu Ronald
Levy, Rutgers University: ronlevy@lutece.rutgers.edu
Alexandre Morozov, Rutgers University: moro-
zov@physics.rutgers.edu
The course is sponsored by the BioMaPS Institute
for Quantitative Biology at Rutgers University. The
National Institutes of Health provides partial fund-
ing of the BioMaPS Summer School through the NIH
Roadmap for Medical Research, Grant 5 K07 GM72919.
Information on this RFA, “Curriculum Development
Award in Interdisciplinary Research” can be found at
http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/ .
Jody Hey Professor, Department of Genetics Rutgers
University Nelson Biological Labs (rm B326) 604 Alli-
son Rd. Piscataway, NJ 08854-8082
732-445-5272 fax 732-445-5870
http://genfaculty.rutgers.edu/hey/home
hey@biology.rutgers.edu
Hey@Biology.Rutgers.Edu
RutgersU
EvolutionaryPopulationGenetics
FixedURL
URL (previous EVOLDIR posting had incorrect URL)
http://www.biomaps.rutgers.edu/index.php?option=-
com content&task=blogcategory&id=22&Itemidy
New Directions in Evolutionary and Population
GeneticsJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 11
June 15-17, 2010
Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ
Course Description The course is a three-day intensive
investigation of evolutionary and population genetics.
There will be sessions covering new research directions
in protein evolution, human evolution, mathematical
modeling and evolutionary genetics of model organisms.
To attend please submit a Registration form. There is
no registration fee but registration is required. If you
have any questions on the Summer School, need travel
assistance, or help in arranging for hotel accommoda-
tions, please contact info@biomaps.rutgers.edu.
Inquiries - Please contact one of the organizers (emails
at bottom of this message).
Schedule of Speakers
June15, Tuesday Morning Session: “Protein Evolution”
9:30 - 10:15 AM: Jody Hey (Rutgers University) 10:15 -
11:00 AM: Wei Wang (UCSD) 11:00 - 11:45 AM: Kon-
stantin Zeldovich (UMass Medical School) 11:45 - 12:30
PM: Martin Weigt (Institute for Scientiﬁc Interchange)
12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Functional Selection” 2:00 - 2:45
PM: Robert Trivers (Rutgers University) 2:45 - 3:30
PM: Chang Chan (Institute for Advance Study) 3:30
-4:00 PM: Break 4:00 - 4:45 PM: Daniel Segre (Boston
University) 4:45 - 5:30 PM: Prashanth Ak (Institute for
Advance Study)
June 16, Wednesday Morning Session: “Mathemati-
cal Models” 9:30 - 10:15 AM: Joshua Plotkin (UPenn)
10:15 - 11:00 AM: John Wakeley (Harvard University)
11:00 - 11:45 AM: Sergio Lukic (Rutgers University)
11:45 - 12:30 PM: Sang-Chul Choi (Rutgers University)
12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Microbial Evolution” 2:00 - 2:45
PM: Joshua Rest (SUNY at Stony Brook) 2:45 - 3:30
PM: Paul Sniegowski (UPenn) 3:30 - 4:00 PM: Break
4:00 - 4:45 PM: Laura Landweber (Princeton Univer-
sity) 4:45 - 5:30 PM: Siobain Duﬀy (Rutgers University)
5:30 - 6:15 PM: Jesse Bloom (Cal Tech)
June 17, Thursday Morning Session: “Computational
Methods” 9:30 - 10:15 AM: Adam Siepel (Cornell Uni-
versity) 10:15- 11:00 AM: Jeﬀrey Townsend (Yale Uni-
versity) 11:00- 11:45 AM: Itsik Pe’er (Columbia Uni-
versity) 11:45- 12:30 PM: Matthew Hahn (Indiana Uni-
versity) 12:30 - 2:00 PM: Lunch Break
Afternoon Session: “Human and Model Organism Evo-
lution” 2:00 - 2:45 PM: Soojin Yi (Georgia Tech) 2:45 -
3:30 PM: Marcus Kronforst (Harvard University) 3:30 -
4:00 PM: Break 4:00 - 4:45 PM: Sarah Tishkoﬀ (UPenn)4:45 - 5:30 PM: Matthew Rockman (NYU)
Location: Life Sciences Auditorium, Life Sci-
ences Building Busch Campus, Rutgers Univer-
sity, Piscataway, NJ Links for directions and
travel: http://maps.rutgers.edu/building.aspx?1085
http://maps.rutgers.edu/directions/nb.aspx
Organizers: Kevin Chen, Rutgers University: kc-
chen@biology.rutgers Gyan Bhanot, Rutgers Uni-
versity: gbhanot@rci.rutgers.edu Jody Hey, Rut-
gers University: hey@biology.rutgers.edu Ronald
Levy, Rutgers University: ronlevy@lutece.rutgers.edu
Alexandre Morozov, Rutgers University: moro-
zov@physics.rutgers.edu
The course is sponsored by the BioMaPS Institute
for Quantitative Biology at Rutgers University. The
National Institutes of Health provides partial fund-
ing of the BioMaPS Summer School through the NIH
Roadmap for Medical Research, Grant 5 K07 GM72919.
Information on this RFA, “Curriculum Development
Award in Interdisciplinary Research” can be found at
http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/ .
Jody Hey Professor, Department of Genetics Rutgers
University Nelson Biological Labs (rm B326) 604 Alli-
son Rd. Piscataway, NJ 08854-8082
732-445-5272 fax 732-445-5870
http://genfaculty.rutgers.edu/hey/home
Hey@Biology.Rutgers.Edu
Switzerland
EvolEcolGenomicsAdaptation
Sept2-3
Evolutionary and ecological genomics of adaptation
2-3 September 2010
Fribourg, Switzerland
Organizers: Christoph Haag and Christian Lexer, Uni-
versity of Fribourg Laurent Excoﬃer, University of
Bern
Conﬁrmed invited speakers:
* Roger Butlin (University of Sheﬃeld, UK)
* Adam Eyre-Walker (University of Sussex, UK)
* Hopi Hoekstra (Harvard University, USA)
* Magnus Nordborg (Gregor Mendel Institute, Vienna,12 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Austria)
* David Reich (Harvard University, USA)
* Outi Savolainen (University of Oulu, Finland)
Natural environments diﬀer in many biotic and abiotic
aspects, and the way in which animals and plants adapt
to these diﬀerent environments is one of the fundamen-
tal questions of ecology and evolutionary biology. In
recent years, new genetic and genomic methods have
been developed, making it possible to discover the genes
involved in such adaptations. This has facilitated many
new exciting insights, for instance into
* the functional mechanisms of adaptation * the molec-
ular evolution of adaptively important genes * the ge-
netic architecture of evolving traits * the convergent
evolution of similar phenotypic traits by distinct muta-
tions * the ecology of speciation
We organize a symposium bringing together six invited
speakers including top empirical and theoretical evolu-
tionary biologists and a number of younger researchers
to discuss recent developments in this fast developing
ﬁeld.
Deadline for contributed talk or poster submission: 30
June 2010 Deadline for registration without presenta-
tion: 15 August 2010
For more information on program, travel, venue, reg-
istration etc. please visit: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/adaptation genomics/ Sponsored by: 3´ eme
Cycle Romand en Sciences Biologiques, Conf´ erence
Universitaire de Suisse Occidentale (CUSO), University
of Fribourg, University of Bern
Christoph Haag, Christian Lexer, Laurent Excoﬃer
christoph.haag@unifr.ch
Christian Lexer Associate Professor of Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Fribourg, Department of Biology
Unit of Ecology & Evolution Chemin du Mus´ ee 10, CH-
1700 Fribourg, Switzerland Tel (oﬃce) +41 (0)26 300
8868 Tel (lab): +41 (0)26 300 8895 Fax: +41 (0)26
300 9698 Email: christian.lexer@unifr.ch Web: http:/-
/www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/lexer/index.html chris-
tian.lexer@unifr.ch
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25
CallSymposia
The 13th Congress of the European Society for Evo-lutionary Biology Tuebingen, Germany, 20-25 August
2011
is now online at www.eseb2011.de with some ﬁrst im-
portant benchmarks. Check again in the autumn for de-
tails on registration and submission (we’ll remind you).
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PRO-
POSALS
A substantial part of the programme relies on the as-
sistance of fellow-scientists like you, who are prepared
to organize a symposium. This is a call to submit pro-
posals by 31 July 2010.
Symposia typically start with one or two invited speak-
ers (40 min) and are followed by submitted talks (20
min) (actual duration will be shorter to allow partici-
pants to change rooms). Symposia take place in one,
two or a maximum of three 80-min windows. On spe-
cial request, symposia can take the form of a discussion
round or other more interactive forms of scientiﬁc ex-
change.
A symposium proposal consists of:
1. One organizer (for all communication) and one co-
organizer (as a replacement) with contact details. Both
are committed to attend the whole meeting. We do not
provide ﬁnancial support for organizing a symposium.
2. Topic: Anything related to short-term or long-term
evolutionary change, with preference for well-deﬁned,
emerging ﬁelds or new trends in established ﬁelds.
Please provide a short, tantalizing title as well as a
5-line summary that can be used for an online overview
of symposia.
3. Proposal details: Summarize in max. 1 page why
you think this makes a good subject for the next ESEB
Congress and propose up to 4 possible (alternative) in-
vited speakers (please check beforehand whether these
people are available V a ﬁrm commitment is not yet
necessary at this stage). If feasible, attach a list of
possible submitted contributions (name + institution).
ESEB will waive the registration fee for the (one or two)
invited speakers in symposia. Please indicate whether
you can generate ﬁnancial support for accommodation
or traveling of the guest speakers.
4. Time window: Explain why you want to apply for
one, two or three 80- min time windows.
5. Submission: Send an email before 31 July 2010
to nico.michiels@uni- tuebingen.de. Proposals will be
evaluated and selected by the Local Scientiﬁc Commit-
tee. We expect to decide on symposia by the end of
October at the latest. Symposia proposals on overlap-
ping subjects may be requested to fuse.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 13
6. A call for contributed papers will be sent out in De-
cember 2010. Symposium organizers must be prepared
to screen submissions for their symposium (online eval-
uation system).
Looking forward to receiving a broad spectrum of ex-
citing proposals.
Yours, Nico Michiels
Nico Michiels, Prof. Dr. Animal Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Faculty of Biology Auf der Morgenstelle 28 72076
Tuebingen Germany
Tel. +49 7071 2974649 Fax +49 7071 295634 Mobile
+49 170 4758003
nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de http://-
www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de http://www.eve.uni-
tuebingen.de Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@uni-
tuebingen.de >
UCaliforniaLosAngeles
GenomicDiversity Jul22-24
14th Annual Genetics & Ethics in the 21st Century:
Genomic Diversity and Health Disparities. July 22-24,
2010 The Stanley Hotel Estes Park, Colorado
Sponsored By: University of Colorado Denver, Univer-
sity of California Los Angeles, Case Western Reserve
University
Featured Speakers: - Rick Kittles, Department of
Medicine, University of Chicago, “The Role of Diverse
Populations in Understanding Cancer Disparities” -
Sandra Soo-Jin Lee, Stanford Center for Biomedical
Ethics, Stanford University. “The Search for Diﬀer-
ence: Personalized Medicine and its Implications for
Health Disparities” - Jeﬀrey C. Long, Department of
Anthropology, University of New Mexico, “Genetic An-
cestry and Race and Their Implications for Health
Disparities” - Patrick Boudreault, Deaf Studies De-
partment, California State University Northridge, and
Christina Palmer, Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sci-
ences, Human Genetics, and the Center for Society and
Genetics, UCLA, “Genetics and Deaf Communities” -
Ed McCabe, Pediatrics, Human Genetics, and Center
for Society and Genetics, UCLA; Physician-in-Chief,
Mattel Children’s Hospital, “Ancestry and Identity:
From Recreational Genetics to Personalized Medicine”
This is a call for abstracts for the fourteenth conference
in an annual series that addresses current ethical, soci-etal and legal issues related to human genetics. The fo-
cus of this year’s conference is on the issues surrounding
new genomic technologies allowing for large-scale ances-
try testing and health risk assessments, and how these
technologies are co-evolving with societal and legal un-
derstandings about human diversity and health dispar-
ities across groups. Are the new technologies paving
the way for personalized genomics, providing new iden-
tities and destabilizing old identities to individuals and
groups, re-instituting biological determinism? The con-
ference will consider multiple facets of human diversity,
and how diﬀerent groups and constituencies experience
health disparities and are aﬀected by new medical tech-
nologies for population screening.
The deadline for abstract submissions is
MAY 21th, 2010. Please submit ab-
stracts (250 word max.) to Ana Wevill
ana@socgen.ucla.edu <mailto:ana@socgen.ucla.edu >
You will be notiﬁed about your submission by June
1st. We are soliciting papers, panels and posters (note
your preference in your submission). We encourage life
and social scientists, ethicists, health care professionals
and physicians, historians, legal professionals and
students to consider a submission. Paper and poster
sessions may include, but are not limited to: Ancestry
Testing; Population Screening; Ancestry and Cancer;
Genomics and Health Disparities in African-American,
Latino/a, Asian and Native American Communities;
Health Disparities in Diverse Communities.
For more information please contact: Jessica
Lynch Alfaro, Ph. D. Associate Director UCLA
Center for Society and Genetics 1321 Rolfe
Hall Los Angeles CA 90095-7221 310 206 1889
http://www.socgen.ucla.edu/lynchalfaro@ucla.edu
Janet@mednet.ucla.edu
UColorado
HumanGenomicDiversity Jul22-24
14th Annual Genetics & Ethics in the 21st Century:
Genomic Diversity and Health Disparities. July 22-24,
2010 The Stanley Hotel Estes Park, Colorado
Sponsored By: University of Colorado Denver, Univer-
sity of California Los Angeles, Case Western Reserve
University
Featured Speakers: - Rick Kittles, Department of
Medicine, University of Chicago, “The Role of Diverse
Populations in Understanding Cancer Disparities” San-14 EvolDir June 1, 2010
dra Soo-Jin Lee, Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics,
Stanford University. “The Search for Diﬀerence: Per-
sonalized Medicine and its Implications for Health Dis-
parities” Jeﬀrey C. Long, Department of Anthropology,
University of New Mexico, “Genetic Ancestry and Race
and Their Implications for Health Disparities” Patrick
Boudreault, Deaf Studies Department, California State
University Northridge, and Christina Palmer, Psychia-
try and Biobehavioral Sciences, Human Genetics, and
the Center for Society and Genetics, UCLA, “Genetics
and Deaf Communities” Ed McCabe, Pediatrics, Hu-
man Genetics, and Center for Society and Genetics,
UCLA; Physician-in-Chief, Mattel Children’s Hospital,
“Ancestry and Identity: From Recreational Genetics to
Personalized Medicine”
This is a call for abstracts for the fourteenth conference
in an annual series that addresses current ethical, soci-
etal and legal issues related to human genetics. The fo-
cus of this year’s conference is on the issues surrounding
new genomic technologies allowing for large-scale ances-
try testing and health risk assessments, and how these
technologies are co-evolving with societal and legal un-
derstandings about human diversity and health dispar-
ities across groups. Are the new technologies paving
the way for personalized genomics, providing new iden-
tities and destabilizing old identities to individuals and
groups, re-instituting biological determinism? The con-
ference will consider multiple facets of human diversity,
and how diﬀerent groups and constituencies experience
health disparities and are aﬀected by new medical tech-
nologies for population screening.
The deadline for abstract submissions is Monday, May
10th, 2010. Please submit abstracts (250 word max.)
to Ana Wevill ana@socgen.ucla.edu You will be noti-
ﬁed about your submission by June 1st. We are solicit-
ing papers, panels and posters (note your preference in
your submission). We encourage life and social scien-
tists, ethicists, health care professionals and physicians,
historians, legal professionals and students to consider
a submission. Paper and poster sessions may include,
but are not limited to: Ancestry Testing; Population
Screening; Ancestry and Cancer; Genomics and Health
Disparities in African-American, Latino/a, Asian and
Native American Communities; Health Disparities in
Diverse Communities.
For more information please contact: Jessica Lynch
Alfaro, Ph. D. Associate Director UCLA Cen-
ter for Society and Genetics 1321 Rolfe Hall Los
Angeles CA 90095-7221 310 206 1889 http://-
www.socgen.ucla.edu/lynchalfaro@ucla.edu IMPOR-
TANT WARNING: This email (and any attachments)
is only intended for the use of the person or entity to
which it is addressed, and may contain information thatis privileged and conﬁdential. You, the recipient, are
obligated to maintain it in a safe, secure and conﬁ-
dential manner. Unauthorized redisclosure or failure
to maintain conﬁdentiality may subject you to federal
and state penalties. If you are not the intended recipi-
ent, please immediately notify us by return email, and
delete this message from your computer.
Janet@mednet.ucla.edu
ULaval CanSocEcolEvol May9-12
Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution 2010 An-
nual Meeting, University of Laval, Queb´ ec City, May
9-12
REGISTRATION REMINDER: There is still time to
register for the 2010 CSEE Annual meeting in Qu´ ebec
City. We still have available slots for posters. However,
titles must be received by April 16th to be listed in
the printed program. We would appreciate receiving as
soon as possible the remaining registrations such that
we can ﬁnalise the arrangements for the social events.
You can register online at: http://-
www.scee2010.ulaval.ca/meeting.htm We are looking
forward to hosting you in Qu´ ebec!
Local Organizing Committee: Louis Bernatchez, Nadia
Aubin-Horth, St´ ephane Boudreau, Nathalie Brodeur,
Steeve Cˆ ot´ e, Christian Landry, Eric Normandeau, Julie
Turgeon, Jeﬀ Hutchings
Soci´ et´ e Canadienne d’ ´Ecologie et d’ ´Evolution Congr` es
annuel 2010, Universit´ e Laval, Qu´ ebec, 9-12 mai
DERNIER RAPPEL POUR L’INSCRIPTION: Il est
encore temps de vous inscrire pour participer ` a la
r´ eunion annuelle 2010 de la SCEE ` a Qu´ ebec. Il reste en-
core des places disponibles pour pr´ esentation d’aﬃches.
Notez cependant que les titres re¸ cus apr` es le 16 avril
ne seront pas ˆ etre list´ es dans le programme imprim´ e.
Aussi, nous aimerions recevoir les derni` eres inscriptions
d` es que possible aﬁn de ﬁnaliser les arrangements pour
les diverses activit´ es sociales.
Vous pouvez vous inscrire en ligne ` a : http://-
www.scee2010.ulaval.ca/meeting fr.htm Au plaisir de
vous recevoir ` a Qu´ ebec!
Comit´ e organisateur: Louis Bernatchez, Nadia Aubin-
Horth, St´ ephane Boudreau, Nathalie Brodeur, Steeve
Cˆ ot´ e, Christian Landry, Eric Normandeau, Julie Tur-
geon, Jeﬀ HutchingsJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 15
Louis Bernatchez Chaire de recherche du Canada en
G´ enomique et Conservation des Ressources Aquatiques
D´ epartement de biologie, Institut de Biologie
Int´ egrative et des Syst` emes (IBIS) Pavillon Charles-
Eug` ene-Marchand 1030, Avenue de la M´ edecine Local
1145 Universit´ e Laval Qu´ ebec (Qu´ ebec) G1V 0A6
Canada
T´ el.: 1 418 656-3402 T´ el´ ec.: 1 418 656-
7176 Courriel: Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Web: http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
ULisbon PolyploidEvolution
Nov11-12
Dear colleagues,
The website of the THE INTERNATIONAL MEET-
ING ON THE GENETICS OF POLYPLOIDS is now
available.
http://polyploidymeeting.fc.ul.pt/ The INTERNA-
TIONAL MEETING ON THE GENETICS OF POLY-
PLOIDS aims at promoting knowledge exchange and
discussions on the latest developments regarding the
ﬁeld of polyploidy. The meeting will take place
next November11th-12th, 2010 at the Faculdade de
Ci˜Ancias, Universidade de Lisboa (FCUL).
The main topics to be covered in the meeting will be
gene expression, genome dynamics, sex and reproduc-
tion, and will include subjects such as epigenetics, gene
regulation, genome structure and evolution, heterosis,
sexual diﬀerentiation and determination will be cov-
ered.
This international meeting will feature outstanding
speakers in the ﬁeld of polyploidy such as Luca Comai,
UC Davis, USA; James Bogart, University of Guelph,
Canada; Manfred Schartl, University of Wuerzburg,
Germany; Roger Butlin, University of Sheﬃeld, UK.
We would greatly appreciate your collaboration in help-
ing us promote this meeting.
International meeting on the genetics of
polyploids http://t2.gstatic.com/images?q=-
tbn:zveCAWSFlXy8DM:http://www.freed
igitalphotos.net/images/photos/kiwi-fruit-halves.jpg
Angela In ˜Acio<mainacio@fc.ul.pt >UOttawa ComparativeGenomics
Oct9-11
SECOND CALL FOR PAPERS
Eighth Annual RECOMB Satellite Meeting on Com-
parative Genomics
October 9-11, 2010
University of Ottawa
http://recombcg.uottawa.ca/recombcg2010/ Compar-
ison of related genomes oﬀers enormous inferential
power, revealing a wealth of knowledge about genome
evolution itself and about genetic function and cel-
lular processes. As the number of fully sequenced
genomes grows, so do the opportunities and challenges
for computational comparative genomics. This work-
shop brings together leading researchers in the mathe-
matical, computational and life sciences to discuss cut-
ting edge research in comparative genomics, with an
emphasis on computational approaches and novel ex-
perimental results. The program will include both in-
vited speakers and contributed talks.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
Brenda J. Andrews (University of Toronto) Andrew G.
Clark (Cornell University) Nicolas Corradi (University
of British Columbia) Jan Dvorak (University of Califor-
nia at Davis) Aoife McLysaght (University of Dublin)
Nicholas Putnam (Rice University)
Contributions to this computationally-oriented work-
shop are welcomed on any theoretical and/or empirical
approach to genome-wide comparison such as genome
evolution, algorithms for genome rearrangement, com-
parative tools for assembly, gene identiﬁcation or an-
notation, comparison of functional networks, genomic
variation in humans and model organisms, cancer ge-
nomics, duplication patterns of genes, segments and
whole genomes, and comparative epigenetics. To com-
pete for a place in the program, papers should be sub-
mitted electronically at
https://www.easychair.org/login.cgi?conf=-
3Drecombcg10 in order to be rated by a distinguished
program committee.
The workshop will be held on the campus of the Uni-
versity of Ottawa beside the downtown area. Ottawa is
served by direct ﬂights from New York, Philadelphia,
Chicago, Washington, Detroit, London, Frankfurt and16 EvolDir June 1, 2010
many Canadian cities. The dates of the workshop coin-
cide with the three-day Canadian Thanksgiving week-
end, around the peak time for autumn foliage colour.
KEY DATES
Paper submission deadline June 7, 2010
Notiﬁcation of paper acceptance June 28, 2010
Final manuscript due July 16, 2010
Poster submission deadline September 17, 2010
Notiﬁcation of poster acceptance September 21
STEERING COMMITTEE
Jens Lagergren (Stockholm Bioinformatics Centre and
CSC, KTH, Sweden) Aoife McLysaght (University of
Dublin, Ireland) David Sankoﬀ (University of Ottawa,
Canada)
CONFERENCE CHAIR
David Sankoﬀ (University of Ottawa)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIR
Eric Tannier (INRIA Rhˆ one-Alpes, France)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
LOCAL ORGANIZING COMMITTEE Anne Bergeron
(Universit´ e du Qu´ ebec ` a Montr´ eal) Frank Dehne (Car-
leton University) Guy Drouin (University of Ottawa)
Nadia El-Mabrouk (Universit´ e de Montr´ eal) Evangelos
Kranakis (Carleton University) Marcel Turcotte (Uni-
versity of Ottawa)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE Lars Arvestad (Royal In-
stitute of Technology, Sweden) Anne Bergeron (Uni-
versit´ e du Qu´ ebec ` a Montr´ eal) Mathieu Blanchette
(McGill University) Guillaume Blin (Universit´ e Paris-
Est, France) Guillaume Bourque (Genome Institute
of Singapore) Marilia Braga (University of Bielefeld,
Germany) Michael Brudno (University of Toronto)
Jeremy Buhler (Washington University) S` everine
B´ erard (INRA Toulouse, France) Cedric Chauve (Si-
mon Fraser University) Aaron Darling (University of
Queensland, Australia) Niklas Eriksen (G¨ oteborg Uni-
versity, Sweden) Patricia Evans (University of New
Brunswick) Guillaume Fertin (Universit´ e de Nantes,
France) Matthew Hahn (Indiana University) Joao Mei-
danis (UNICAMP, Brazil Bernard Moret (Ecole Poly-
technique F´ ed´ erale de Lausanne, Switzerland) Craig
Nelson (University of Connecticut) Aida Ouangraoua
(Simon Fraser University) Michal Ozery-Flato (Univer-
sity of Tel-Aviv, Israel) Teresa Przytycka (NCBI) Eric
Rivals (LIRMM & CNRS) Eduardo Rocha (Univer-
sit´ e Paris 6 et Institut Pasteur, France) Hugues Roest
Crollius (Ecole Normale Sup´ erieure, France) Jens Stoye
(Universit¨ at Bielefeld, Germany) Krister Swenson (Uni-versity of Ottawa) Glenn Tesler (UC San Diego) Elisa-
beth Tillier (University of Toronto) St´ ephane Vialette (
Universit´ e Paris-Est, France) Sophia Yancopoulos (The
Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, New York)
Louxin Zhang (National University of Singapore)
CALL FOR PAPERS
Papers should be submitted via the EasyChair
system. Submissions must be received in elec-
tronic form by 11:59pm (any time zone), June
7, 2010. https://www.easychair.org/login.cgi?conf=-
3Drecombcg10 Submissions should be no longer than
12 single-spaced 8.5“x 11” pages with 1.25-inch margins
all around, everything included (title,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UOxford Avian July
The Edward Grey Institute, in the Dept of Zoology,
University of Oxford, is hosting two international Or-
nithological meetings in July 2010:
The SIXTH INTERNATIONAL HOLE-NESTING
BIRDS CONFERENCE will be held at Lady Margaret
Hall (one of the Colleges of the University of Oxford,
close to the city’s historic centre) from 13-15 July.
Following successful meetings in The Netherlands
(twice), Corsica, Switzerland and Poland, the Sixth
International Hole Nesting Bird Conference is taking
place at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford from 13th July
- 15th July 2010. The meeting will open with regis-
tration and a drinks reception and buﬀet on 13 July at
Lady Margaret Hall College, and then last two full days
(14th/15th July) and will provide a forum for recent
studies of ecology, evolution and behaviour of all hole-
nesting species, temperate or tropical, and of purely
academic or more applied interest. Social events in-
clude a guided trip to Wytham Woods and barbeque,
and plenary speakers include Christiaan Both, Erik
Matthysen, James Reynolds & Ben Sheldon.
Immediately following this, on 16 July 2010, is the
DAVID LACK CENTENARY SYMPOSIUM, to be
held in the Department of Zoology, University of Ox-
ford, to mark the centenary of the birth of David LackJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 17
on 16 July 1910. A programme of invited talks will
focus on, and celebrate, the scientiﬁc contributions of
David Lack to Ornithology, and the broader ﬁelds of
Ecology and Evolution, and assess the development of
these ﬁelds in the 21st century. Speakers include: Prof
Thomas Alerstam, Prof Ted Anderson, Prof Tim Birk-
head, Prof Ben Hatchwell, Dr Andrew Lack, Prof Ian
Owens, Prof Chris Perrins, Prof Trevor Price, Prof Si-
mon Verhulst. The meeting will conclude with a recep-
tion and Banquet at Wadham College.
Further details of both meetings can be found at:
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/newsevents/-
2010conferences.html We look forward to welcoming
you in Oxford this summer.
ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk
WoodsHole CytochromeBiodiversity
Oct3-7
We are pleased to announce the
10th International Symposium on Cytochrome P450
Biodiversity and Biotechnology, 3-7 October 2010 in
Woods Hole, Massachusetts, USA.
This symposium addresses all aspects of cytochrome
P450 biodiversity, biotechnology, and evolution. Theoverall goal of this 10th symposium is to foster a syn-
thesis of understanding of cytochrome P450 (CYP)
structural and functional evolution, and new directions
in application of this knowledge in environmental as-
sessment, remediation, and synthesis of new potential
drugs.
Sessions in this meeting include evolutionary and mech-
anistic comparisons among available P450 structures,
functional comparisons among microbial, insect and
plant P450s in synthetic and detoxiﬁcation pathways,
as well as bioengineering of P450 catalytic sites for tech-
nological and environmental applications.
Presentations (talks and posters) by graduate students
and post-docs are strongly encouraged.
##### Abstract Submission and Registration
are now open ##### http://www.whoi.edu/-
conferences/p450 Abstract Deadline is August 1,
2010
A list of plenary speakers will be posted in the com-
ing weeks. We hope to welcome you to Woods Hole in
October!
Please share this announcement with students and col-
leagues.
John Stegeman and Jed Goldstone, Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution Mary Schuler and Stephen
Sligar, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
p450@whoi.edu
jedgold@gmail.com
GradStudentPositions
Dublin MammalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Edinburgh 2 FungalPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
ETH Switzerland AquaticAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
GoetheU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Groningen EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
ImperialCollege London NetworkBiology . . . . . . . . . . 21
INRA Nancy FungalPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 22
IowaStateU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
LeibnizInst EvolutionPathogenResistance . . . . . . . . . . 24
Munich HostParasitePredator Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . 24Poitiers France MicrobialDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
SouthDakotaStateU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . 26
Spain Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UArizona OriginProtoGenome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UBath EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UBern PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UCollegeLondon SexualSel Complexity . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UEdinburgh PlantTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UGoettingen InsectFungusMolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 3118 EvolDir June 1, 2010
UGuelph MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UHawaii Hilo FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UHawaii Hilo PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UIdaho MolecularPlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UIdaho PlasmidHostRangeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
ULausanne EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UlmU BatVirusDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UMunich PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35UOttawa EvolutionaryFungalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UOxford SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UPlymouth ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UQuebecRimouski CrustaceanGeneFlow . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UYork EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Vienna TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Dublin MammalEvolution
Dear All,
Applications are invited for a 4-year PhD position
to study the evolution of innate immunity in mam-
malian clade the Bioinformatics and Molecular Evolu-
tion Group at Dublin City University, Ireland.
Suitable candidates will have a background in genet-
ics/mathematics/computer science/evolutionary biol-
ogy, have a keen interest in molecular evolution and
must be highly motivated.
For further information please contact Dr Mary
O’Connell directly (email given below).
If you are interested in applying for the position, please
send your CV (with referee detailsx2) and personal
statement to mary.oconnell@dcu.ie
Application deadline: 30th May 2010. Project start
mid-late September 2010.
Best wishes,
Mary
Dr Mary J. O’Connell, Bioinformatics and Molecular
Evolution Group leader, Chair of Bioinformatics DCU,
School of Biotechnology, Dublin City University, Glas-
nevin, Dublin 9.
Phone: +353 1 700 5112 Fax: +353 1 700 5412 Email:
mary.oconnell@dcu.ie website: http://bioinf.dcu.ie dr
mary o’connell <mary.oconnell@dcu.ie >
Edinburgh 2
FungalPathogenEvolution
Hi all, these 2 PhD studentships are available for EUcitizens:
PhD Studentship 1
What is driving the rapid evolution of Ramularia collo-
cygni?
Scottish Agricultural College
Scottish Agricultural College and BASF
Ramularia collo-cygni is a pathogen of increasing im-
portance on barley crops in Northern Europe and can
cause signiﬁcant yield losses. This Project will use a
combination of lab and ﬁeld based experimentation to
develop increased understanding of the biology of this
pathogen. The use of population genetic markers will
be deployed to examine the variation found in popu-
lations, whilst examining the functionality and evolu-
tionary potential of the asteromella stage of the fungus.
This studentship is fully funded by BASF and will be
based at SAC, whilst being registered at the University
of Edinburgh.
This postgraduate position is for three years, with a
proposed start date of October 2010, ending October
2013. The full award (stipend and fees) is available to
EU Citizens only.
The successful candidate must have or expect to obtain
a minimum of an upper second class degree in a sci-
entiﬁc discipline from a UK University or equivalent.
They should have familiarity and demonstrated use of
current Windows oﬃce packages. and data handling
packages. Oral and writing skills in English are re-
quired to a high standard. A valid EU driving license
is also desirable.
The studentship oﬀers a stipend of £13290 per annum.
The student will be based at the SAC, King’s Buildings,
West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG.
Application packs are available from Frances Strat-
ford (frances.stratford@sac.ac.uk) quoting reference
SAC/CSS/BASF
For further particulars or to have an informal discus-
sion about this studentship, contact Dr Neil Havis
neil.havis@sac.ac.uk (0131 535 4136) or Dr James Foun-
taine james.fountaine@sac.ac.uk (0131 535 4370) SAC,June 1, 2010 EvolDir 19
West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JG.
Closing date for the return of applications is 9 July 2010
PhD Studentship 2
Scottish Agricultural College
Scottish Agricultural College and Syngenta Crop Pro-
tection
Characterisations of mutations in the succinate dehy-
drogenase gene for potential fungicide resistance devel-
opment in Ramularia collo-cygni populations.
This postgraduate position is for three years, with a
proposed start date of October 2010, ending October
2013. The full award (stipend and fees) is available to
EU Citizens only.
Ramularia collo-cygni is a pathogen of increasing im-
portance on barley crops in Northern Europe. It is
a disease that occurs late in the season and is char-
acterised by small necrotic spots, usually with a yel-
low halo. Recently, Syngenta Crop Protection have
launched a new succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors
(SDHI) fungicide, this project will characterise the po-
tential mutations in R. collo-cygni that could cause
fungicide resistance with the use of lab derived mutants.
The implications of these mutants and ’wild type’ sam-
ples will then be assessed using a range of bioassays,
ﬁeld and glasshouse experiments and high-throughput
genotyping (such as pyrosequencing), additionally pop-
ulation genetic markers will also be developed to help
understand the potential impact of resistance on the
wider populations of R. collo-cygni at a plot, ﬁeld and
a wider scale. This project is a jointly funded project
between SAC and Syngenta Crop Protection and will
be registered at the University of Edinburgh.
The successful candidate must have or expect to obtain
a minimum of an upper second class degree in a sci-
entiﬁc discipline from a UK University or equivalent.
They should have familiarity and demonstrated use of
current Windows oﬃce packages. and data handling
packages. Oral and writing skills in English are re-
quired to a high standard. A valid EU driving license
is also desirable.
The studentship oﬀers a stipend of £13290 per annum.
The student will be based at the SAC, King’s Buildings,
West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG.
Application packs are available from Frances Strat-
ford (frances.stratford@sac.ac.uk) quoting reference
SAC/CSS/Syng
For further particulars or to have an informal discussion
about this studentship, contact Dr James Fountaine,
james.fountaine@sac.ac.uk (0131 535 4370) or Dr FionaBurnett, ﬁona.burnett@sac.ac.uk (0131 535 4133) SAC,
West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JG.
Closing date for the return of applications is 9 July 2010
Scottish Agricultural College. A Charitable company
limited by guarantee, SC003712. Registered in Scot-
land No 103046 - Registered Oﬃce: West Mains Road,
Edinburgh EH9 3JG
Peter Hoebe <Peter.Hoebe@sac.ac.uk >
ETH Switzerland
AquaticAdaptation
Eawag is the Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science
and Technology, a Swiss-based and internationally op-
erating aquatic research institute within the ETH do-
main.
The Department of Aquatic Ecology seeks to recruit a
: PhD student in Aquatic Ecosystems Ecology
The PhD student will be funded by a Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation grant, entitled “Responses
of Aquatic Food Webs and Ecosystems to Global Envi-
ronmental Change”.
The aim of the project is to understand how environ-
mental change will aﬀect the functioning of aquatic
ecosystems. The project involves large-scale experi-
ments that manipulate the ecological and evolutionary
diversity of food webs under contrasting environmental
conditions (e.g. temperature, inorganic nutrients, and
dissolved organic matter). The project is broadly fo-
cused on aquatic food webs, so the student may work on
microbial, phytoplankton, zooplankton, and ﬁsh com-
munities. Ultimately, the research addresses fundamen-
tal links between the ecology and evolution of food webs
and the physical environment and biogeochemistry of
ecosystems.
We are looking for a self-directed and motivated stu-
dent with a broad interest in ecology, evolution, and/or
ecosystem science. Ideally, the student will be inter-
ested in ﬁeldwork, microbial communities and food-web
experiments.
Eawag is an international research institute, and is
closely aﬃliated with top universities that grant PhD
degrees, such as ETH-Zurich. The working language of
the department is English. We oﬀer a stimulating re-
search environment in the Aquatic Ecology department,
which has locations in D¨ ubendorf (near Zurich) and20 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Kastanienbaum (near Lucerne). Located on the shores
of Lake Lucerne, Eawag’s Center for Ecology, Evolu-
tion & Biogeochemistry (CEEB) is a strong nucleus of
Eawag research groups aimed at integrating evolution-
ary biology, community ecology, and ecosystem science.
At both locations, the student will interact with a di-
verse range of researchers studying community ecology,
evolutionary biology, ecological genetics, ecosystem sci-
ence, and applied environmental science. The project
will also involve collaborations between researchers at
Eawag (Dr. Blake Matthews, Dr. Mark Gessner, and
Dr. Helmut B¨ urgmann) and the University of Vienna
(Dr. Christian Winter, and Dr. Gerh ard Herndl).
The starting date for the PhD student is ﬂexible, but a
starting date in 2010 is preferred. The PhD program at
ETH-Zurich generally lasts three years. Applications
should include a cover letter, a curriculum vita, and
three references. Copies of prior publications or theses
will also be considered if made available via PDF.
Please submit your application by 1 July 2010 as a sin-
gle PDF ﬁle to Sandra Isenring, Eawag, Human Re-
sources Department (recruiting@eawag.ch), indicating
reference number 104402.
For further information: please visit Eawag’s website
(http://www.eawag.ch ) contact Dr. Blake Matthews
by email (blake.matthews@eawag.ch) or visit his web-
site ( http://homepages.eawag.ch/˜matthebl )
Blake.Matthews@eawag.ch
GoetheU Biodiversity
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(BiK-F)has recently been founded by the Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung,the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and additional partners.
It is fundedby the Federal State of Hesse through its Ini-
tiative for the Development ofScientiﬁc and Economic
Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to-
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions ofbiodiversity and climate change at the
organism level. The Project Area C “Adaptation and
Climate”invites applications for the position of a
PhD position Eﬀector evolution in plant pathogens ±
Project C2.5 [Ref. #C39] TV-H E 13 (50%)
The main subject of the advertised position will be the
elucidation ofevolutionary processes in the Hyaloper-
onosporaarabidopsidis species cluster, with focus on theevolution of eﬀectorgenes during adaptation and radi-
ation of downy mildews. The project willinvolve popu-
lation genetics, genomics, and functional analyses.
The applicant should hold a diploma, masters orequiv-
alent degree (e.g. BSc with honours) in biology, genet-
ics, plant pathology, bioinformatics or a similar ﬁeld of
study. Experience in molecularbiology (PCR, molecu-
lar cloning) is a prerequisite. Knowledge in population-
genetics, plant pathology or molecular phylogenetics is
an advantage. Advanced English language skills and an
interest in joining amultidisciplinary research team are
required. Knowledge of German is anadvantage, and at
least the willingness to learn basic German is required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public servicepo-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13, 50%). The Research
Centre BiK-F advocates gender equality.Women are
therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally quali-
ﬁed severelyhandicapped applicants will be given pref-
erence. The contract shall begin 1st of July, 2010 and
will berestricted to three years. The duty station will
be Frankfurt am Main, Germany.The employer is the
Senckenberg Gesellschaft fUEr Naturforschung. Please
send your application by e-mail, mentioning the refer-
ence of this position (#C39) including a detailed CV,
certiﬁcates, and 2references, before June 1st to: Prof.
Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc CoordinatorBio-
diversity and Climate Research Centre, Senckenbergan-
lage 25, D-60325 Frankfurtam Main, Germany. E-mail
to Service and Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions pleasewrite to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny (e-
mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de)and for sci-
entiﬁc enquiries to Prof. Dr. M. Thines (e-mail:
marco.thines@senckenberg.de).
Frankfurt a. M., 17.03.2010 Prof. Dr. M. T1rkay
Many thanks and best wishes, Marco
Prof. Dr. Marco Thines Biodiversity and Climate Re-
search Centre (BiK-F) Gerog-Voigt-Str. 14-16 (visi-
tors) Senckenberganlage 25 (mail) D-60325 Frankfurt
Germany
Tel.: +49 6975421833
Marco Thines <Marco.Thines@senckenberg.de >
Groningen EvolutionaryGenetics
PhD position Evolutionary Genetics (1,0 fte)(210200)June 1, 2010 EvolDir 21
Organisation The vacancy is at the Evolutionary Ge-
netics group at the Centre for Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Studies (CEES), Faculty of Mathematics and
Natural Sciences, University of Groningen. Areas of re-
search include speciation, evolution of reproductive and
sex determination systems, and life-history evolution;
main model organisms are the parasitic wasps Nasonia
and Asobara, and the fruit ﬂy Drosophila. The group
provides a lively, internationally oriented, scientiﬁc en-
vironment with excellent facilities.
Job description The characterization of sex determining
mechanisms has recently become feasible in a broader
range of organisms due to advent of new molecular tech-
niques, in particular the availability of whole genome
sequences. To identify the mechanisms by which sex
determining mechanisms can change requires further
characterization of gene networks of a larger array of
organisms in a phylogenetic context. Our research fo-
cuses on sex determination in haplodiploid organisms
with the parasitic wasp Nasonia as model organism.
In this PhD project we will investigate the genetic ba-
sis of sex determination in Asobara wasps, which are
known to have multiple diﬀerent forms of sex determi-
nation. We will develop molecular marker (microsatel-
lite, SNP) maps to ﬁne scale map sex loci using genetic
crosses. We will use a functional genomics approach to
identify sex determination genes using RNA sequencing
and bioinformatic essays for candidate genes followed
by functional and expression analyses (qPCR, RNAi).
Requirements We are looking for a masters or equiv-
alent degree in biology with preferably a strong back-
ground in evolutionary and molecular genetics. The
project is expected to be very demanding and asks
for a creative mind. The candidate should have a
strong interest in experimental molecular work on in-
sects. Good proﬁciency of the English language is re-
quired. The candidate will be enrolled in Groningen
Graduate School of Science, attend graduate courses
within the Research School Ecology and Evolution and
assist in teaching (10% of time).
Secundary The University of Groningen oﬀers a salary
of 2042 gross per month in the ﬁrst year up to a max-
imum of 2612 gross per month in the ﬁnal year. The
full time appointment is temporary for 1.5 years with
the perspective of prolongation with another 2.5 years.
Objective of the temporary 4-year position is a number
of research articles in peer-reviewed scientiﬁc journals,
which together will form the basis of the thesis leading
to the granting of the PhD degree (Dr) at the Univer-
sity of Groningen. After the ﬁrst year, there will be an
evaluation as to the feasibility of successful completion
of the PhD thesis within the next three years.The position is funded by a TOP grant of the Nether-
lands Organization for Scientiﬁc Research (NWO) and
embedded in a research programme on haplodiploid sex
determination that includes a postdoc project and tech-
nical support.
We would like to receive letters in Dutch or English,
including the personal motivation for the position, a
curriculum vitae along with names and addresses, in-
cluding telephone/fax and e-mail addresses, of three ref-
erees.
For more information please contact: Prof. L.W.
Beukeboom, l.w.beukeboom@rug.nl Dr L. van de
Zande, louis.van.de.zande@rug.nl
Dr. Bart A. Pannebakker
Evolutionary Genetics Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Studies University of Groningen P.O.
Box 14 NL-9750 AA Haren The Netherlands Phone
+31 50 363 8099 Fax +31 50 363 2348 Email
b.a.pannebakker@rug.nl http://www.rug.nl/biologie/-
onderzoek/onderzoekgroepen/evolutionarygenetics/-
people/Pannebakker bartpannebakker@gmail.com
ImperialCollege London
NetworkBiology
*PhD Studentship in Network Biology Department of
Computing, Imperial College London * *PhD Stu-
dentship: *Untaxed bursary of £15,200 per annum
plus UK/EU fees. UK nationals are eligible. EU
nationals are only eligible for the bursary if they
meet the EPSRC requirement of having been in the
UK for three years immediately prior to starting the
PhD. Details can be found at http://www.epsrc.ac.uk/-
PostgraduateTraining/StudentEligibility.htm
Fixed Term for 3 years, starting October 2010.
Imperial College is ranked in the top ﬁve universities
of the world, according to the 2009 Times Higher Ed-
ucation World University Rankings. It has particular
strength in Engineering, Natural Sciences, Life Sciences
and Biomedicine, and was ranked the 6th in the world
in technology, the 10th in the world in natural sciences,
and 17th in the world in life sciences and biomedicine
in the Times Higher Education World University Rank-
ings, October 2009. The *Department of Computing
*is one of the largest computing departments in the UK
and is a world leader in academic research in computer22 EvolDir June 1, 2010
science. The department has been awarded the top rat-
ing (5*) in each of the Research Assessment Exercises
undertaken by the Higher Education funding Council
for England (HEFCE). There are over sixty academic
staﬀ actively involved in research, creating a lively and
stimulating atmosphere. The department also enjoys
strong links with UK industry, which helps to ensure
that its research and teaching is well informed and rel-
evant to the needs of society. Imperial College London
has active research in *systems biology *and related
scientiﬁc disciplines. Over 60 academic appointments
were made over the past decade at the interface be-
tween the life and physical sciences. The College also
has substantial high performance computing resources.
We have a PhD studentship starting in October 2010 to
work on topics at the intersection of computing, graph
algorithms and systems biology. The position is for
three years, and covers fees and a tax-free bursary with
London weighting. An ideal candidate will have re-
search interests in the following areas:
Large-scale data analysis and modeling
Systems biology
Network analysis and modeling
Graph algorithms
Parallel computing
The PhD studentship, under the supervision of Dr.
Natas(a Prz(ulj, involves the development of new com-
putational graph theoretic and modelling approaches
applied to large-scale problems in systems and syn-
thetic biology, proteomics, cancer informatics, and
chemoinformatics. Analysis and modelling of large
networked systems, such as protein-protein interac-
tion and transcriptional regulation networks, will be
performed, focusing on developing new methods for
network alignment, network integration, as well as
other techniques for deciphering large-scale systems
biology data sets to improve biological understand-
ing, get insights into disease and improve therapeutics.
For more information about the project, see http://-
www.doc.ic.ac.uk/˜natasha/ . The project will inter-
face with related programs and institutes at Imperial
College, including the Institute of Systems and Syn-
thetic Biology, the Centre for Bioinformatics, and the
Centre for Integrative Systems Biology (CISBIC). In-
formal inquiries can be directed to: Dr. Natas(a Prz(ulj
(natasha@imperial.ac.uk).
Applicants should have at least a distinction or ﬁrst in a
Masters level degree in computer science, or an equiva-
lent degree in mathematics, physics, engineering, bioin-
formatics, or a related discipline. A good backgroundin graph theory, mathematics, computing (knowledge of
algorithms, C, C++, Linux, and a scripting language)
would be advantageous. Some knowledge of biology and
bioinformatics are desirable. Applicants must be ﬂuent
in spoken and written English. For further information
on the PhD degree, see http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
computing/research/degrees . Applications *must *in-
clude the following:
A College application form, which can be obtained
from http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/pgprospectus/-
applicationforms . A 2-3 page research statement
that describes what you see as interesting research
issues relating to this studentship and what relevant
experience you have.
A detailed CV.
Transcripts of all degree results.
2 recent letters of reference.
To submit your application for this PhD studentship,
please follow the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
INRA Nancy
FungalPopulationGenomics
PhD position in Population Genomics of Fungi
I am looking for a highly motivated candidate to work
on a population genetic/genomic project in the plant
pathogenic species Melampsora larici-populina (respon-
sible for the poplar rust). The aim of the PhD is
to highlight the virulence factors of this fungal plant
pathogen from a population genomic approach. Candi-
dates should have a good background in evolutionary
ecology and above all population genetics. Knowledge
on host parasite interactions would be appreciated. In-
terest (but not necessarily good skills) in molecular bi-
ology (next generation sequencing) is required.
The proposed project stand at the core of the joint unit
Tree-Microorganism interactions and lie at the interface
of its two major teams “ecology and population biol-
ogy of tree fungal pathogens (directed by B. Mar¸ cais)
and ”eco-genomic“ (directed by F. Martin). The ju-
nior scientist will thus beneﬁt from the complementaryJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 23
skills and resources of these two teams, including ad-
vanced population genetics knowledge, large and histor-
ical population sampling on one hand and, on the other
hand, great genomic tool and molecular resources, in-
cluding genome sequence and transcriptomic analyses
performed on this model pathogen species.
The subject has been selected for application as
”Young scientist contracts“ which result from a part-
nership between INRA and graduate schools. These
contracts have initial duration of 3 years (PhD) and
can be renewed for 2 more years for a post doc project
(including necessarily a period of time abroad). Young
scientist contracts have very attractive remuneration
conditions. Before obtaining his/her PhD, the doctoral
student receives 2055? (gross) per month. After
obtaining his/her PhD, the remuneration is 2373?
(gross) per month. An annual bonus of 796? is paid
half-yearly. More details on young scientist contracts
can be found at http://www.international.inra.fr/-
joinus/positions/research training positions/-
young scientist contracts 1 Successful candidate
will be selected by an examination committee of
the graduate school RP2E (Nancy). All details on
how to apply can be found at (French and English
version underneath). http://www.rp2e.inpl-nancy.fr/-
index.php?id=5 The competitive examination is open
to any nationality. Dead line for application is May
15th. Position will start in fall 2010.
Don’t hesitate to contact me for any query
(halkett@nancy.inra.fr).
Below is the abstract of the subject I propose. The
ﬁeld of population genomics has recently emerged at
the cross between traditional population genetics and
the development of high-throughput techniques, with
the aim to decipher the strength of selection events on
genome evolutions. Although not yet widely applied
to plant pathology studies, these approaches seem par-
ticularly well suited to reveal the genetic bases of the
adaptive potential of fungal plant pathogens. While the
rapid pace of pathogen evolution (which result from in-
tensive selection pressure through the massive deploy-
ment of resistant genes) presents a major impediment
to sustainable agriculture, it also provides interesting
opportunities to better understand the evolutionary bi-
ology of host-parasite interactions. Here we want to ap-
ply the population genomic toolboxes to decipher the
evolution of virulence loci in the fungus responsible for
the poplar rust (Melampsora larici-populina). Deep-
ening into the genome’s organisation, the project will
successively try to (i) highlight genomic regions sub-
jected to a selective sweep caused by a drastic selection
event which was the overcoming of a major resistant
gene, (ii) point out the genes (among these region) un-der positive selection, and putatively responsible for the
gene for gene interaction and (iii) study the evolution,
including recombination rate, of these genomic regions
implied in fungal pathogenicity. This project would
thus bring us fundamental knowledge on the genome
evolution of pathogens, which would help designing sus-
tainable strategies of crop protection.
Best regards,
Fabien Halkett
F. HALKETT halkett@nancy.inra.fr
UMR 1136 IAM (Trees-Microorganisms joint unit)
INRA Nancy F-54280 Champenoux France Tel : +33
3 83 39 40 55 Fax : +33 3 83 39 40 69
halkett@nancy.inra.fr
IowaStateU ConservationGenetics
Ph.D. Graduate Assistantship, Conservation Genetics
of Freshwater Mussels at Iowa State University
One graduate research assistantship is anticipated to
be available to support a Ph.D. candidate interested in
conservation genetics. The project involves laboratory
and ﬁeld components designed to improve our under-
standing of two federally protected freshwater mussel
(Unionidae) species. Research goals are to understand
the population structure across the respective species
ranges and improve our knowledge of the age structure
and growth rate within populations. The successful ap-
plicant will also be expected to develop and execute
an original research project that compliments the de-
scribed research. The position will be located at Iowa
State University in the laboratory of Dr. Kevin J. Roe
(http://www.public.iastate.edu/˜kjroe/ ).
Applicants must be enthusiastic and capable of working
independently. Prior experience with DNA extraction,
PCR, microsatellites, DNA sequencing and/or freshwa-
ter mussels is preferred.
The position is expected to begin August 2010 (fall
semester); admission for the spring semester (January
2011) is also acceptable. For more information and to
apply, please email a curriculum vitae, a one-page state-
ment of research interests and relevant experience, and
the names and email addresses of three references to
Dr. Kevin J. Roe (kjroe@iastate.edu).
Kevin Roe Natural Resource Ecology and Management
339 Science II Iowa State University Ames, IA 5001124 EvolDir June 1, 2010
515 294-8332
kjroe@iastate.edu
LeibnizInst
EvolutionPathogenResistance
The Leibniz Institute of Marine Sciences (IFM-
GEOMAR) is oﬀering a
Scientist Position (PhD-candidate)
within the newly founded Emmy Noether group Evo-
lutionary genetics of pathogen resistance in coastal
ecosystems funded for a period of at least 36 months
starting from July 2010.
Background: The consequences of climate change for
the epidemiological spread of infectious disease are
largely unexplored. Potential evolutionary responses
to increasing selection pressure arising from interac-
tions between disease agents and an altered environ-
ment have largely been neglected “ especially in ma-
rine ecosystems. We are looking for a PhD student
to work on the evolutionary ecology of host-parasite
interactions in coastal ecosystems by investigating in-
fection patterns of ubiquitous bacterial pathogens and
evolutionary trajectories of target hosts from diﬀer-
ent key groups (ﬁsh, bivalves and crustaceans) within
the Wadden Sea ecosystem. By combining molecu-
lar (gene expression, genome scans) and quantitative
genetic tools (evolutionary potential of G matrices,
GxGxE interactions) over a gradient of experimen-
tal systems ranging from ﬁeld studies to mesocosms
and laboratory experiments, we want to explore the
evolutionary responses of diﬀerent hosts to pathogen
infection (mainly genus Vibrio) in changing environ-
ments. The project is a collaboration between the
department of Evolutionary Ecology of Marine Fishes
at IFM-GEOMAR, Kiel ( http://www.ifm-geomar.de/-
index.php?id=3D565&L=3D1 ) and the Alfred We-
gener Institutes Wadden Sea station on the island of
Sylt ( http://www.awi.de/de/institut/standorte/sylt/ ).
Most of the experimental work will be based on the is-
land of Sylt, oﬀering the unique opportunity to work in
an ecosystem that recently claimed the status of world
natural heritage site.
The group is a member of the DFG priority program
SPP1399 Host-Parasite Coevolution and our collabo-
rations with the Max Planck Institute for Evolution-
ary Biology (Pln, D), NIOZ (Texel, NL), and IPIMAR(Tavira, PT) oﬀer a stimulating research environment
for addressing questions on the ecology of host-parasite
interactions.
Necessary qualiﬁcations include a diploma or master
degree in evolutionary biology, ecology or related ﬁelds.
Experience with molecular techniques and statistical
analysis of large data sets is a deﬁnite plus.
The salary is in accordance with level 13 TV-L of the
German tariﬀs for public employees.
Applications will be considered until June 30, 2010
or until the position is ﬁlled. Candidates should
send a curriculum vitae, copies of diploma- or M.Sc.-
certiﬁcates, list of publications, a summary of the
diploma- or M.Sc.-thesis, and the names and addresses
of two references to in a single pdf ﬁle to:
Dr. Mathias Wegner Email:mwegner (a) ifm-geomar.de
Further information can be obtained from http://-
www.ifm-geomar.de/index.php?id=3Dmwegner&L=-
3D1 The Leibniz Institute for Marine Sciences wishes
to increase the number of female co-workers, and
applications from women are particularly encouraged.
Applications of handicapped persons will be favoured
when all other qualiﬁcations are equal.
mazemiliano@mac.com
Munich HostParasitePredator
Evolution
Reminder: PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology
(trade-oﬀs between host responses to parasites and
predators)
A 3-year PhD position is available in the labs of Dr.
Justyna Wolinska and PD Dr. Christian Laforsch (joint
project) at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at (LMU)
in Munich, to study the trade-oﬀs between adaptive re-
sponses to parasites and predators in the context of
inducible defences. While many studies have identi-
ﬁed the beneﬁts of predator-induced plasticity, little
evidence exists for the associated costs. The proposed
research will test the beneﬁts and costs of inducible de-
fences in the context of simultaneous exposure to par-
asites. We will use Daphnia (waterﬂeas) as the model
host (for microparasites) and prey (for invertebrate and
vertebrate predators).
The project is a combination of laboratory experiments
(about 60% of the project), ﬁeld work (20%) and molec-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 25
ular techniques (20%). The selected candidate will have
the freedom to develop the project according to his/her
own interests and strengths. The student will also take
part in the PhD program of the LMU (including various
courses).
Applicants should have a Master’s or Diploma degree in
biology. The working language is English. Experience
in experimental design, statistics and using PCR-based
molecular genetic methods would be advantageous.
Applicants should submit a single PDF ﬁle by e-mail
(to both supervisors), containing the following items:
- cover letter with a brief summary of research back-
ground and professional motivation,
- CV,
- abstract of master/diploma thesis,
- contact information of two professional referees.
Application deadline: May 15. The position is avail-
able from 1st July 2010. If you have any speciﬁc ques-
tions (e.g. details of the project), feel free to email
us: wolinska@bio.lmu.de or laforsch@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de.
See also: http://sci.bio.lmu.de/ecology/evol e/-
people wolinska e.html http://sci.bio.lmu.de/-
ecology/evol e/people laforsch e.html – Justyna
Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at, M¨ unchen
Department Biologie II Evolutions¨ okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried,
Germany
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89
2180 74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de http://-
www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/ecology/evol e/-
people wolinska e.html justyna.wolinska@gmail.com
Poitiers France MicrobialDiversity
PhD position in Poitiers: microbial diversity associated
with arthropods
The project will concern the characterization of the
symbiotic communities of arthropods. Symbiosis con-
stitutes a major evolutionary strength in the history
of life [1]. If Wolbachia remains the most frequent
endosymbiont in arthropods, recent studies show that
the presence of other bacteria, the eﬀects of which are
still unknown, was probably underestimated [2]. Wol-
bachia are widespread (prevalence ~62 %) in isopodsand are involved in major host evolutionary changes
[3]. Moreover Wolbachia induce an immunodepression
in their hosts [4], so facilitating the establishment of
opportunistic bacteria. Even if some pathogenic bacte-
ria were described [5], the main part of the symbiotic
community remains largely unknown in isopods.
The PhD project aims at a characterization of the mi-
crobes associated with Armadillidium vulgare and re-
lated species. This pill bug is one of the best studied or-
ganisms in the laboratory. Recent unpublished results
show that endosymbionts (sex parasites or pathogenic
bacteria) others than Wolbachia, are also present in this
host. The project is part of EndoSymbArt and AdaWol
ANR projects oﬀering a stimulating research environ-
ment. It involves direct collaboration with members
of the lab and with research groups in France. The
project will start in October 2010. The PhD position
will be will be granted (salary 1757 euros per month)
by the CNRS (National Center for Scientiﬁc Research)
(http://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/doctorants-10/ ).
The successful applicant must hold a Biology M.S. de-
gree or equivalent. A strong background in bacteria-
invertebrates symbiotic interactions will be appreci-
ated, as well as in molecular biology and DNA se-
quence handling. Skills in AFLP Ampliﬁed Fragment-
Length Polymorphism, TGGE Temperature Gradient
Gel Electrophoresis, FISH Fluorescent in situ Hy-
bridization, Quantitative PCR constitute a plus. The
application should be written in English and should in-
clude personal information/background, a detailed CV
with a summary of research experiences, and at least
one reference letter. Applications should be sent to:
didier.bouchon@univ-poitiers.fr
Application deadline: 30/04/2010.
References [1] Moya, A., J. Pereto, R. G, Latorre A.
2008, Learning how to live together: genomic insights
into prokaryoteˆ aanimal symbioses, Nature Reviews Ge-
netics 9:218-229. [2] Bouchon D, Cordaux R, Gr ˜Ave
P. 2008 Feminizing Wolbachia and the evolution of
sex detremination in isopods. in Insect symbiosis, K.
Bourtzis and T. Miller (Ed.) 273-294. [3] Duron O,
Bouchon D, Boutin S, Bellamy L, Zhou L, Engelst¨ adter
J, Hurst GD. 2008 The diversity of reproductive para-
sites among arthropods: Wolbachia do not walk alone.
BMC Biology 24 :6-27. [4] C. Braquart-Varnier, M.
Lachat, J. Herbini ˜Are, M. Johnson, Y. Caubet, D. Bou-
chon D, M. Sicard. (2008). Wolbachia mediate vari-
ation of host immunocompetence. PLoS ONE 2008
Sep 26;3(9):e328 [5] Cordaux R, Paces-Fessy M, Rai-
mond M, Michel-Salzat A, Zimmer M, Bouchon D. 2007
Molecular characterization and evolution of arthropod-
pathogenic Rickettsiella bacteria. Appl Environ Micro-26 EvolDir June 1, 2010
biol. 73(15):5045-7.
– Pr. Didier Bouchon University of Poitiers UMR
CNRS 6556 Ecology Evolution Symbiosis 40 avenue
du Recteur Pineau F-86022 Poitiers cedex, France
tel. +33 (0)5 49 45 38 95 fax +33 (0)5 49 45 40 15
http://ecoevol.labo.univ-poitiers.fr/ http://pbil.univ-
lyon1.fr/endosymbart/ mailto:didier.bouchon@univ-
poitiers.fr
Didier Bouchon <didier.bouchon@univ-poitiers.fr >
SouthDakotaStateU
EvolutionaryGenetics
M.S. Graduate Assistantship Available in Evolutionary
Genetics at South Dakota State University
One graduate assistantship is available to support a
M.S. student interested in the genetic analysis of sick-
leweed (Falcaria vulgaris, Apiaceae) in North America.
Sickleweed is a common weed native to Europe and
western Asia. Little is known of its biology and eco-
logical genetics in North America and its native range
in Eurasia. During the past two decades, sickleweed
has rapidly invaded 3240 ha of mixed grass prairie on
the Fort Pierre National Grassland (FPNG) in central
South Dakota. Research goals are to 1) study genetic
diversity of sickleweed in North America and in its
source populations in Eurasia, (2) determine the source
and frequency of introduction and 3) combine genetic
data with ecological data to understand the role of ge-
netics in successful spread of this exotic species in North
America.
The position will be located at South Dakota State
University in the laboratory of Dr. Madhav Nepal.
The project involves sample collections in the ﬁeld and
molecular work in the laboratory. Applicants must be
enthusiastic, highly motivated and capable of working
independently. Prior experience with DNA extraction,
PCR and genotyping using molecular marker is a plus.
The Start date is January 2011 (spring semester). To
apply, please email a curriculum vitae, a one-page state-
ment of relevant experience, and the names and email
addresses of three references to: Dr. Madhav Nepal
(Madhav.Nepal@sdstate.edu)
Madhav Nepal, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Division of
Biology and Microbiology South Dakota State Univer-
sity, 57007 Brookings SD
Oﬃce : 224 West Hall PH: (608) 688-5971, FX: (605)688-6677, EM: Madhav.Nepal@sdstate.edu
Madhav.Nepal@sdstate.edu
Spain Biodiversity
As the previous editions, the Master’s Degree Program
“Biodiversity in Tropical Areas and its conservation” is
a one-year MSc program (75 ECTS) oﬀered jointly by
the International University Menendez Pelayo (UIMP,
Ministry of Education, Spain) and the Spanish National
Research Council (CSIC, Ministry of Science, Spain).
The program is fully funded by the CSIC, with a strong
emphasis on fellowships for Latinamerican students; the
title is an oﬃcial European MSc degree conceded by the
UIMP. The program will be taught in Ecuador, with an
emphasis on practical studies in natural reserves. The
program is international, with a minimum of 15 and a
maximum of 30 students.
ROUTE TO PhD DEGREE.- Qualiﬁed graduates from
the MBATC program have the possibility to continue
their PhD studies in CSIC Departments (Real Jardin
Botanico, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, etc.)
through separate application calls opened each year.
They can also apply to other programs in the Spanish
science system, or to any European or American uni-
versity, as this MSc title is an oﬃcial European degree.
WHAT DO I NEED TO APPLY TO THE
PROGRAM?.- You are eligible to apply to the program
if you hold a Bachelor’s degree in any suitable ﬁeld, es-
pecially on biosciences: biology, forestry, or agriculture,
but also in geography or economics for example.
You must be proﬁcient in Spanish language.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT.- The CSIC oﬀers 5 full schol-
arships (6300
euros/student) and 5 for registration fees (1300 eu-
ros/student). The program ﬁnances additional full and
registration scholarships for Latin American applicants.
HOW TO APPLY?.- The application period for studies
starting in October 2010 is now open until 9-July-2010.
Application to the CSIC fellowships is also open from
18-May to 25 June 2010.
You can ﬁnd all the information and detailed instruc-
tions on how to apply at
http://www.masterenbiodiversidad.org/
Jes´ us Mu˜ noz e-mail: jmunoz@rjb.csic.es Real Jard´ ınJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 27
Bot´ anico (CSIC) Plaza de Murillo 2 tlf. +34 91 420
3017 E-28014 Madrid fax. +34 91 420 0157 ESPA ˜NA
(Spain)
http://www.masterenbiodiversidad.org http:/-
/www.rjb.csic.es/jardinbotanico/jardin/-
contenido.php?Pag=413 <http://www.rjb.csic.es/-
jardinbotanico/jardin/contenido.php?Pag=-
413&tipo=cie ntiﬁco&codf >&tipo=cientiﬁco&codf
KRAKEN research group (environmental mod-
elling, data processing & analysis): <http:/-
/www.unex.es/unex/grupos/grupos/kraken >
http://www.unex.es/unex/grupos/grupos/kraken
SYNTHESYS: EU funds short visits to our insti-
tution: <http://www.synthesys.info/index.htm >
http://www.synthesys.info/index.htm
Jes´ us Mu˜ noz <jmunoz@rjb.csic.es >
Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomics
2 PhD-positions in evolutionary genomics are avail-
able in a collaborative project of the research groups
of Dieter Ebert (University of Basel, Switzerland) and
Christoph Haag (University of Fribourg, Switzerland).
We are looking for highly motivated candidates with
interest in evolutionary genomics. A background in
bio-informatics and genomics is helpful. The positions
are funded to work on the evolution of (a)sexual repro-
duction (PhD projects). The suggested methodology
includes genome scans, population surveys, SNP geno-
typing using microarrays, and comparative genomics.
Previous experience with Daphnia is not required, but
excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal skills, good
work ethics, and the ability to think creatively and crit-
ically are desired. Starting dates are ﬂexible, from Au-
gust 2010 onwards. Positions are funded for 3 years.
Successful candidates will take part in the Swiss doc-
toral school in Population Genomics.
One PhD student will be mostly located in
Dieter Ebert’s group working at Basel Univer-
sity, the other PhD student will be mainly lo-
cated at Fribourg University. Details about
the groups: http://evolution.unibas.ch/ http://-
www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/haag/haag labhome.html
Please send your application by E-mail to Dieter Ebert
(dieter.ebert@unibas.ch). Applications should include
a single pdf-ﬁle containing CV, a list of publications
and a 1 page description of your research interests andmotivation. Please give names and email addresses of
two persons who are willing to write a letter of recom-
mendation. Applications received before 7. June 2010
will be given full consideration. Interviews will be held
in the ﬁrst half of July 2010.
Contact information:
Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, Zoolo-
gisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1, CH-4051 Basel, Switzer-
land, Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch Phone: +41-
(0)61-267 03 60 Fax +41-(0)61-267 03 62
Dr. Christoph Haag University of Fribourg Department
of Biology Chemin du Mus´ ee 10 CH-1700 Fribourg,
Switzerland Email: christoph.haag@unifr.ch Phone:
+41-(0)26-300 88 71 Fax: +41-(0)26-300 96 98
UArizona OriginProtoGenome
Graduate PhD position to study the origin of the proto-
genome
In the laboratories of
Pierre Durand and Marc Weinberg in the Department
of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, University of
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa (pdu-
rand@email.arizona.edu or marc.weinberg@wits.ac.za)
Richard Michod in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona (mi-
chod@u.arizona.edu)
A funded position is available for a PhD student to
study the origin of the proto-genome. This project
builds on a conceptual scenario for the origin of the
genome as an evolutionary transition (see references be-
low). We aim to investigate the process by which selﬁsh,
autonomous biomolecules may form cooperative groups
and ultimately a functionally integrated evolutionary
unit. The successful candidate will work on developing
a laboratory model system of ribozymes and/or self-
ish genetic elements to investigate changes in ﬁtness
components and life history trade-oﬀs in individual, au-
tonomous molecules that predispose to the formation of
a new integrated whole (the proto-genome). The bulk
of the project uses molecular biology techniques, but
will also draw on evolutionary theory and ecology. This
is a relatively new ﬁeld and guidance and supervision
will be provided.
This is a collaborative project. The successful candi-
date will be required to spend time in the laboratories28 EvolDir June 1, 2010
of Pierre Durand and Marc Weinberg in the Depart-
ment of Molecular Medicine and Haematology, Univer-
sity of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
and in Richard Michod’s laboratory in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Ari-
zona, Tucson, USA. According to the student’s situa-
tion and interests the successful candidate would apply
to and enroll in either one of the associated graduate
programs at the University of the Witwatersrand or the
University of Arizona and the stipend would be deter-
mined by the current pay scales in those programs.
Interested applicants are encouraged to see the follow-
ing:
1. For background concepts relevant to this
project, see: PM Durand and RE Michod, Ge-
nomics in the light of evolutionary transitions.
Evolution, 2010.In press. (doi:10.1111/j.1558-
5646.2009.00907.x, https://wwwresearchgate.net/-
publication/40023880 genomics inthelight ofev
olutionary transitions)
2. To provide applicants with an appreciation of
the molecular biology approaches that may be used,
see: MS Weinberg and JJ Rossi, Comparative single-
turnover kinetic analyses of trans-cleaving hammer-
head ribozymes with naturally derived non-conserved
sequence motifs. FEBS Letters 2005.
3. To provide applicants with an appreciation for the
evolutionary and ecological approaches that will be ap-
plied to investigate the origin of the proto-genome as
an evolutionary transition in individuality, see: RE Mi-
chod, Evolution of individuality during the transition
from unicellular to multicellular life. PNAS, 2007.
We are seeking a self-motivated candidate with a molec-
ular biology background, who can work independently,
as well as part of a team. The position is open to in-
dividuals from all countries with either a MSc or BS
/ BSc (Hon) (with work experience and/or outstand-
ing results) and a desire to make a contribution in this
area of research. Funding and additional scholarships
may be available dependant upon the candidate’s back-
ground and expertise. Informal enquiries are welcome
to any of the investigators above. To apply, please send
a detailed CV with the contact details for three refer-
ences and a cover letter explaining why you think you
are suited for this project to the Principal Investiga-
tor: Dr. Pierre Durand at pdurand@email.arizona.edu.
A provisional starting date will be early 2011. The
position will remain open until a suitable candidate is
found.
Rick Michod <michod@u.arizona.edu >UBath EvolutionaryGenetics
PhD opportunity in evolutionary genetics
There is an opportunity for a PhD project in the Kover
lab to look at predictability of responses to selection
at the molecular level. We are looking for someone in-
terested in evolutionary questions and confortable with
bioinformatics tools. The project is interdisciplinary
in nature and would be carried in colaboration with
Lawrence Hurst’s group. However, there is enough ﬂex-
ibility to taylor to student’s interest.
“Paula X. Kover” <p.x.kover@bath.ac.uk >
UBern PopulationGenomics
*PHD POSITION IN POPULATION GENOMICS*
The CMPG lab ( http://cmpg.iee.unibe.ch ) is looking
for a highly motivated student to work on the detec-
tion of multi-locus adaptive events having occurred in
the recent history of human populations.
These investigations will be done by a combination of
bioinformatics, phylogenetics, and population genetics
analyses. Using available information on gene inter-
actions and polymorphisms in humans and primates,
this project should enable us to better understand con-
certed adaptive evolution and epistatic interactions be-
tween genes scattered over the genome. The project will
be partly supervised by Prof. Marc Robinson-Rechavi
from the Evolutionary Bioinformatics Group in Lau-
sanne ( http://bioinfo.unil.ch/ )
The successful applicant should have a Masters in Biol-
ogy or Bioinformatics, and some previous experience in
population genetics, statistics, data base management
and programming (e.g. in C/C++, PHP, Java or R).
The CMPG lab is well equipped with computational
tools including a 64 node Linux cluster, and access to
the much larger Ubelix cluster of the University (1000+
CPUs). Our lab is also aﬃliated to the doctoral pro-
gram in Ecology and Evolution ( http://www.unil.ch/-
ee), the Swiss NSF ProDoc program in Population
Genomics, and the Swiss Institute of BioinformaticsJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 29
(http://www.isb-sib.ch ), which all provide access to
stimulating and helpful doctoral training and courses.
The position will start, for 3 years, on 1st September
2010. Gross salary follows the Swiss NSF scale and is
around CHF 40,000.- per year.
Applicants should send, within a single pdf ﬁle,
a motivation letter with names and emails of two
referees, a CV, and a publication list to lau-
rent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch
Application deadline is May 1st 2010
– Laurent Excoﬃer
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern, Switzer-
land Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31 631 48 88
Email: laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch (NEW) http://-
cmpg.iee.unibe.ch/ (NEW)
Computational Population Genetics Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm Laurent Ex-
coﬃer <laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch >
UCollegeLondon SexualSel
Complexity
UCL 4-year Studentships in Biodiversity, Ecology and
Evolution
Two 4-year Studentships are oﬀered at UCL as part of
the Darwin School for Biodiversity, Ecology and Evo-
lution. This is a new collaborative venture between
UCL, Imperial College, the Institute of Zoology, the
Natural History Museum and the Royal Botanic Gar-
dens Kew. Students will have access to the resources,
facilities and collections of these institutions. In the
ﬁrst year of study, students will be enrolled in the
UCL Systems Biology MRes programme. This provides
a research-intensive programme of taught courses and
hands-on training in the principles of systems biology,
advanced biological modelling, quantitative approaches
and research skills along with two research projects.
For further details see: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/systems-
biology/graduate-training . Each student will then
progress to one of the two PhD projects:
1) Identifying genes involved in sexual selection.
Supervisors: Prof Andrew Pomiankowski & Dr KevinFowler
Our aim is to improve understanding of the genetic ba-
sis of female sexual preferences. Research will be un-
dertaken using the stalk-eyed ﬂy Diasemopsis meigenii
to uncover the number of genes involved, their eﬀect
sizes and linkage patterns. The student will map the
genes for the male ornamental trait (eyespan), and un-
cover the nature of any genetic covariance with female
preference. The student will also map genes for male
fertility and ejaculate properties (sperm and accessory
gland proteins) as these are thought to be important in
determining the beneﬁts of mate choice. The genetic
analyses will be carried out using QTL (quantitative
trait locus) mapping on a SNP map of the D. meigenii
genome. The student will work closely with a postdoc-
toral fellow and research technician employed on our
NERC grant addressing these topics, and with other
members of the stalk-eyed ﬂy group with diverse inter-
ests in reproductive biology and sexual selection. There
will be opportunities for ﬁeld work associated with this
Studentship to better understand the mating behaviour
of this and allied stalk-eyed ﬂy species. Further infor-
mation: see http://www.ucl.ac.uk/stalkie/ or contact:
a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk.
2) Comparative genomics to study the evolution of loss
of complexity.
Supervisor: Prof Max Telford
While organisms have generally increased in complexity
through evolutionary time, many instances are known
in which characteristics have been lost in diﬀerent lin-
eages. The project will use bioinformatic approaches
to study newly available genome sequence data from
two evolutionarily pivotal animals, the priapulid worm
Priapulus caudatus and the deuterostome Xenoturbella
bocki. Both fruitﬂies and nematodes have lost a signiﬁ-
cant proportion of genes present in other animal groups.
This may be related to changes in morphology and also
to the evolution of the rapid developmental programs
seen in these species. Priapulus is an Ecdysozoan re-
lated to arthropods and nematodes, yet has been shown
to have a slowly evolving genome compared to these
taxa. Comparisons of the conservatively evolving Pria-
pulus genome with those of model organisms may give
an insight into the link between morphological evolu-
tion and changes in the tempo of genome evolution.
In a similar vein, Xenoturbell a is a deuterostome re-
lated to echinoderms and vertebrates yet it has lost
typical deuterostome characters such as gill slits and a
through gut. Genome comparisons will shed light on
the genetic basis for such diﬀerences. The project will
be co-supervised by Prof J¨ urg B¨ ahler. Further infor-
mation: contact: m.telford@ucl.ac.uk.30 EvolDir June 1, 2010
How to apply
Expressions of interest with a covering letter, CV,
and names and contact details of two referees
should be sent as soon as possible to Prof Pomi-
ankowski (a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk) or Prof Telford
(m.telford@ucl.ac.uk) as appropriate. In addition, a
formal application should be submitted to UCL admis-
sions: see http://www.ucl.ac.uk/admission/graduate-
study/application-admission/apply-online/ . Closing
date for applications is 30/07/10. Studentships will
start in Sept. 2010 and provide a stipend and tu-
ition fees for 4 years of study. Studentships are avail-
able to all UK/EU applicants who satisfy the require-
ments of ’home/EU’ student status. For further details
see: http://www.ukcisa.org.uk/student/info sheets/-
tuition feesewni.php# . ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh PlantTaxonomy
MSc Degree/Postgraduate Diploma in the Biodiversity
and Taxonomy of Plants
Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh/ University of Ed-
inburgh
Programme Philosophy The MSc in Biodiversity and
Taxonomy of Plants was established by the University
of Edinburgh and the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh
(RBGE) to address the growing worldwide demand for
trained plant taxonomists and whole-plant scientists.
A detailed knowledge of plants and habitats is funda-
mental to their eﬀective conservation. To communicate
such knowledge accurately and eﬀectively, training is
required in plant taxonomy ’ the discipline devoted to
plant diversity and evolution, relationships, and nomen-
clature. The MSc is perfect for those wishing to develop
a career in many areas of plant science: Survey and
conservation work in threatened ecosystems Assessment
of plant resources and genetic diversity Taxonomic re-
search Management of institutes and curation of collec-
tions A stepping stone to PhD research and academic
careers
Edinburgh is a unique place to study plant taxonomy
and diversity. The programme and students beneﬁt
widely from a close partnership between RBGE and the
University of Edinburgh (UoE). RBGE has one of the
world1s best living collections (15,000 species across our
four specialist gardens ’ 5% of world species), an herbar-
ium of three million specimens and one of the UK1smost comprehensive botanical libraries. The School of
Biological Sciences at UoE is a centre of excellence for
research in Plant Sciences and Evolutionary Biology.
Recognised experts from RBGE, UoE, and from diﬀer-
ent institutions in the UK deliver lectures across the
whole spectrum of plant diversity. Most course work
is based at RBGE, close to major collections of plants,
but students have full access to the extensive learning
facilities of the university.
Aims and Scope The MSc provides biologists, conser-
vationists, horticulturists and ecologists with a wide
knowledge of plant biodiversity, as well as a thorough
understanding of traditional and modern approaches to
pure and applied taxonomy. Apart from learning about
the latest research techniques for classiﬁcation, students
should acquire a broad knowledge of plant structure,
ecology, and identiﬁcation.
Programme Structure This is an intensive twelve-month
programme and involves lectures, practicals, workshops
and essay writing, with examinations at the end of
the ﬁrst and second semesters. The course starts in
September of each year and the application deadline is
normally 31 March. Topics covered include: Functions
and philosophy of taxonomy Evolution and biodiver-
sity of the major plant groups, fungi and lichens Plant
geography Ecology of plants and ecosystems Conser-
vation and sustainability Production and use of ﬂoras
and monographs Biodiversity databases Phylogenetic
analysis Population and conservation genetics Tropical
ﬁeld course, plant collecting and ecology Curation of
living collections, herbaria and libraries Plant morphol-
ogy, anatomy and development Molecular systematics
Fieldwork and visits to other institutes are an integral
part of the course. There is a two-week ﬁeld course
to Belize in which students are taught ﬁeld collection
and identiﬁcation of tropical plants ecological survey
techniques. The summer is devoted to four months
of a major scientiﬁc research project of the student1s
choice or a topic proposed by a supervisor. These re-
search projects link in directly with active research pro-
grammes at RBGE.
Entry Requirements Applicants should ideally hold a
university degree, or its equivalent, in a biological, hor-
ticultural, or environmental science, and above all have
a genuine interest in plants. Relevant work experience
is desirable but not required. Evidence of proﬁciency in
English must be provided if this is not an applicant1s
ﬁrst language.
Funding The course is currently supported by eight
Natural Environment Research Council studentships
that are open to EU students only. Other international
funding bodies have supported overseas students in theJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 31
past.
Further Information For further details on the
programme, including a course handbook please
visit the RBGE website: http://www.rbge.org.uk/-
education/professional-courses/msc-in-biodiversity-an
d-taxonomy-of-plants You can also contact the Course
director or Education Department at RBGE, or the
Postgraduate Secretary of the University of Edinburgh:
MSc course Director, Dr Louis Ronse De Craene Royal
Botanic Garden Edinburgh Tel +44 (0)131 248 2804
Email: l.ronsedecraene@rbge.ac.uk Postgraduate Sec-
retary, The University of Edinburgh
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UGoettingen
InsectFungusMolEvolution
Institute of Zoology, University of Goettingen, Ger-
many:
PhD position - Insect-fungus molecular ecology
Deadline for application: 15th June 2010. The pre-
ferred starting date: August 2010.
We are looking for a creative and highly motivated per-
son with strong interest in working at the interface
of evolutionary ecology and molecular biology. The
project is part of a larger research program where we
seek to understand the ecological and evolutionary dy-
namics of fungal secondary metabolism in the decom-
poser food web. As a link between molecular and
organismal research at the University of Goettingen,
the project aims at disentangling the mechanisms un-
derlying cross-talk and cross responses in soil fungus-
fungivore interactions. The candidate will work on the
induced chemical response in the Folsomia candida-
Aspergillus model fungus-fungivore system by means of
molecular genetic techniques (e.g., gene expression pro-
ﬁling) and biochemical analyses of secondary metabo-
lites. The project is embedded in a cooperative network
comprising the fungal molecular genetics group led by
Gerhard Braus, the mycotoxin research group led by
Petr Karlovsky in Goettingen, and the fungal genomics
group of Nancy P. Keller at the University of Wiscon-
sin, USA.Applicants must have a master/diploma degree in Bi-
ology or a related discipline. Substantial experience in
molecular genetics/genomics (e.g., microarray studies,
quantitative PCR techniques), preferentially of fungi,
is mandatory. In addition to enthusiasm and reliabil-
ity, good English and social skills are essential to work
eﬀectively in the multi-disciplinary team. Experience
with work on /Aspergillus/ and/or fungal secondary
metabolites would be an advantage.
Goettingen is a medium-sized, old but vivid town in
the center of Germany http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Goettingen, close to the Harz mountains. The Georg-
August-University Goettingen has a long and inﬂuen-
tial academic tradition in Europe and provides excellent
research conditions across many disciplines, including
four Max-Planck Institutes. Given the excellent con-
nection to the Intercity Express high speed network big
cities, such as Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, or Cologne
can be reached within a few hours.
The term of the position will be for a period of three
years. Gross salary: ~29,000 Euros per annum (0.65
TV-L E13).
If you interested in this project, do not hesitate to con-
tact Marko Rohlfs (rohlfs@zoologie.uni-kiel.de) for fur-
ther details. If you want to apply, please send your CV,
a letter of motivation including relevant experience, and
contact details of two referents as a single pdf or word
ﬁle to Marko Rohlfs. Women are especially encouraged
to apply. Severely handicapped people will be prefer-
entially considered in case of equivalent qualiﬁcations.
Relevant publications:
Kempken F, Rohlfs M (2010) Fungal sec-
ondary metabolites – a chemical defense strategy
against antagonistic animals? Fungal Ecology
(doi:10.1016/j.funeco.2009.08.001)
Rohlfs M, Albert M, Keller NP, Kempken F (2007) Sec-
ondary metabolites protect mould from fungivory. Bi-
ology Letters 3: 523-525
W¨ olﬂe S, Trienens M, Rohlfs M (2009) Experimental
evolution of resistance against a competing fungus in
Drosophila. Oecologia 161: 781-790
– PD Dr. Marko Rohlfs Institute of Zoology and An-
thropology University of Goettingen Berliner Str. 28
37073 Goettingen, Germany
Marko Rohlfs <rohlfs@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >32 EvolDir June 1, 2010
UGuelph MolecularEvolution
The College of Biological Science at the University of
Guelph is oﬀering support to enable the recruitment of
several exceptional PhD students, including in the ar-
eas of areas of evolutionary biology, biodiversity, and
genomics. Suitable candidates are sought who can be
put forward in an application for this funding. Possible
positions include:
1. Genome size evolution / evolution of transposable
elements. 2. Arctic biodiversity using DNA barcoding.
3. Applied DNA barcoding, such as in food safety or
forensic/economic applications. 4. DNA barcoding of
parasites, pathogens, and vectors of disease.
Supervisors will depend on the topic of interest, but
will include some combination of Drs. Ryan Gregory,
Sarah Adamowicz, and Robert Hanner in the Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology and the Biodiversity Insti-
tute of Ontario.
Please note the following important details:
- The positions are open only to Canadian students,
and are only at the PhD level (not MSc). - Funding
for one or more of these positions must be applied for
through the College of Biological Science once a suit-
able candidate is identiﬁed to be put forward; it is not
guaranteed that one or more applications will be suc-
cessful. - Successful applicants must be able to begin
studies no later than Fall 2011. - Applicants must have
at least an A average to be eligible. - Holders of major
scholarships (NSERC, OGS) are not eligible.
If you are interested and meet all of the above require-
ments, simply send an email to rgregory@uoguelph.ca
to discuss potential research projects in more detail.
Dr. T. Ryan Gregory Assistant Professor Department
of Integrative Biology University of Guelph Guelph,
Ontario N1G 2W1 CANADA
http://www.gregorylab.org/web/ rgre-
gory@uoguelph.ca
UHawaii Hilo FungalEvolutionScholarship in the Tropical Conservation Biology and
Environmental Science (TCBES) M.S. Program at the
University of Hawai-i
Join a team of researchers examining the diversity
and dynamics of fungal community structure in na-
tive Hawaiian forests across both elevational and suc-
cessional gradients. Building upon previous work done
on the Hawaiian Islands documenting the diversity of
ﬂeshy macrofungi using traditional sampling methods,
this project is adding a molecular component through
the collection of environmental isolates, construction of
cloning libraries, and metagenomic analysis. Results of
this project will provide a much broader picture of both
the taxonomic and genetic fungal diversity present in
native Hawaiian forests, including both macro- and mi-
croscopic taxa. Additionally, the span of this project
across both spatial and temporal gradients will allow
the investigation of not only changes in species compo-
sition and function, but also how such changes may play
a role in fungal speciation and that of any associated
plant species. The graduate scholar will receive train-
ing in ﬁeld and molecular methods, and will contribute
to the overall project while conducting thesis research.
The successful applicant will receive $22,000 annual
salary, will enroll in the TCBES Program, and will join
a vibrant research community in evolutionary biology
at UH Hilo, comprising faculty, postdocs, and graduate
and undergraduate students.
Students of Native Hawaiian, Paciﬁc Islander, or
other under-represented ancestries are especially en-
couraged to apply. For information on the TCBES
Program and application procedures, visit: http://-
tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu Brian A. Perry, Ph.D. Assistant
Professor Department of Biology University of Hawai-i
at Hilo 200 W. Kawili St. Hilo, HI 96720 (808) 974-7363
baperry@hawaii.edu www2.hawaii.edu/ ~baperry
baperry@hawaii.edu
UHawaii Hilo PlantSpeciation
PLEASE CIRCULATE
Graduate Scholarship in the Tropical Conservation Bi-
ology and Environmental Science (TCBES) M.S. Pro-
gram at the University of Hawaii at Hilo http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ tcbes/ I am looking for an en-
thusiastic and energetic M.S. student to join me and
my group to study the mechanisms of speciation inJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 33
Hawaiian Metrosideros (‘Ohi‘a), a group of trees that
appears to represent multiple stages of the speciation
process. The graduate scholar will develop a research
project with me that is aligned with the broader re-
search goals of our program. Our program involves
molecular, ﬁeld, and greenhouse studies to examine
patterns of reproductive isolation and neutral and ex-
pressed genetic variation among habitat-associated va-
rieties and species. The graduate scholar will receive
training in ﬁeld and molecular methods and contribute
to the broader program. S/he will also receive training
through participation in the TCBES Program, which
includes 40-50 students (15-20 in each cohort), 30 on-
campus faculty, and 50 aﬃliate faculty from outside
institutions.
A Bachelor’s degree and strong interest in evolution re-
quired. Bachelor’s degree in biology, with courses or
experience in ecology, evolutionary biology, or genetics
preferred.
The graduate scholar will receive $22,000 annual salary,
will enroll in the TCBES Program in August 2010, and
will join a vibrant research community in evolutionary
genetics at UH Hilo, comprising faculty, postdocs, and
graduate and undergraduate students.
Students of Native Hawaiian, Paciﬁc Islander, or
other under-represented ancestries are especially en-
couraged to apply. For information on the TCBES
Program and application procedures, visit: http:/-
/www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ tcbes/ . Please direct inquiries
ASAP to Dr. Elizabeth Stacy (estacy@hawaii.edu;
www2.hawaii.edu/ ~estacy/).
Elizabeth Stacy Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology TCBES Graduate Program University of Hawai‘i
at Hilo 200 West Kawili Street Hilo, HI 96720 Phone:
808-933-3153 Fax: 808-974-7693
estacy@hawaii.edu
UIdaho MolecularPlantSystematics
M.S. position in molecular plant systematics at the Uni-
versity of Idaho
The Tank lab ( http://phylodiversity.net/dtank ) at the
University of Idaho is seeking to ﬁll a position for a M.S.
student to pursue research in molecular plant system-
atics to begin August 2010. While receiving graduate
training in molecular plant systematics, the student will
act as a herbarium assistant in the Stillinger Herbarium(http://www.uidaho.edu/herbarium ) helping to coor-
dinate a large digitization project focused on imaging
and databasing Idaho vascular plant collections.
Applicants should have a strong interest in plant sys-
tematics and be working towards a career or further de-
gree involving collections based research, phylogenetics,
taxonomy, and/or evolutionary biology.
Applications should include: 1) a cover letter indicating
speciﬁc interest in this position, 2) a general statement
of research interests and experience, and 3) a CV, in-
cluding names and contact information for at least three
references. Interested applicants should send materials
to Dr. David Tank (dtank@uidaho.edu).
The student selected for this position will be required
to successfully enroll as a graduate student in the Col-
lege of Natural Resources at the University of Idaho.
For information about policies and entrance require-
ments pertaining to university admission see: http://-
www.uidaho.edu/cogs/admissions .
David C. Tank, Assistant Professor Director, Stillinger
Herbarium College of Natural Resources University of
Idaho PO Box 441133 Moscow, Idaho 83844-1133
208.885.7033 (oﬃce) 208.885.8012 (lab)
208.885.6564 (fax) dtank@uidaho.edu http:/-
/www.phylodiversity.net/dtank/ http://-
www.uidaho.edu/herbarium.aspx dtank@uidaho.edu
UIdaho
PlasmidHostRangeEvolution
PhD student opportunity at the University of Idaho
A Research Assistantship is available for a Ph.D. stu-
dent to work on mathematical models and simula-
tions of plasmid host range evolution, and on sta-
tistical analyses of data obtained from experimental
plasmid evolution studies. The student will work
under the direction of Dr. Zaid Abdo (Mathemat-
ics, Statistics, Bioinformatics and Computational Bi-
ology) and in close collaboration with Dr. Eva
Top (Biological Sciences, Bioinformatics and Compu-
tational Biology). This joint experimental-theoretical
project is funded by the National Institutes of Health,
and is highly interdisciplinary. The successful can-
didate will be enrolled in the Bioinformatics and
Computational Biology program at the University of
Idaho ( http://www.bcb.uidaho.edu/default.aspx?pid=34 EvolDir June 1, 2010
85454 ). The PhD student will also be part of the
Initiative for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies
(IBEST) group ( http://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/ibest/-
index.html ), a very dynamic and collaborative inter-
disciplinary research group with excellent research re-
sources.
Qualiﬁcations: Student should be highly motivated,
and have a strong background in statistics and mathe-
matical biology. The successful candidate should have
a serious desire to learn about microbial population bi-
ology, and preference will be given to candidates who
have both a strong quantitative and experimental back-
ground.
The stipend pays US$21,000 per year and tuition, fees,
and health insurance are covered as well. In addition,
funds are available to attend conferences. Moscow, the
home of the University of Idaho, is a city of 22,000 peo-
ple, nestled between Moscow Mountain and the beau-
tiful rolling hills of the Palouse. With a small town
friendliness and safety, Moscow is referred to as the
“Heart of the Arts” - with an annual international Jazz
Festival, live music on the town, the Rendezvous in the
Park, and summer theatre. Moscow is also a great
place for those who love the outdoors, with beautiful
rivers, lakes, and diverse mountains within short driv-
ing distance. The University of Idaho and Washington
State University, just eight miles apart, share a large
number of cross-listed courses and many collaborative
programs and research activities. Moscow is 80 miles
from Spokane, Washington, and an hour?s ﬂight from
Seattle.
For more information about the project and graduate
school requirements at the University of Idaho please
contact Dr. Zaid Abdo (zabdo@uidaho.edu) or Dr. Eva
Top (evatop@uidaho.edu). For more information on the
plasmid research, see http://people.ibest.uidaho.edu/-
˜ etop/research.html HOW TO APPLY: For pre-
liminary screening, email a statement of background
and interests, TOEFL scores (for foreign applicants),
GRE scores (if you have them), and a copy of tran-
scripts of academic courses taken to Dr. Zaid Abdo
(zabdo@uidaho.edu). Starting date is ﬂexible.
zabdo@uidaho.edu
ULausanne EvolutionaryGenomics
PHD IN FUNCTIONAL EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NOMICSCenter for Integrative Genomics, University of Lau-
sanne, Switzerland
A PhD student position ( ~4 years) is available in the
evolutionary genomics group of Henrik Kaessmann in
the framework of major new projects funded by the
European Research Council.
We are seeking talented and highly motivated appli-
cants (preferably with some experience/background in
molecular evolution), who have strong programming
skills (or the willingness and drive to acquire them)
and an interest in evolutionary genome analyses using
bioinformatics approaches. A MSc degree or equivalent
is required.
Our group has been interested in a range of topics re-
lated to the functional evolution of genomes from pri-
mates (e.g., emergence of new genes and their func-
tions) and other mammals (e.g., the origin and evolu-
tion of mammalian sex chromosomes). In the frame-
work of a new major line of projects funded by the
European Research Council, a large amount of qualita-
tive and quantitative transcriptome data is being pro-
duced for a unique collection of tissues from represen-
tative mammals by the wet lab unit of the group using
next generation sequencing technologies (RNA-Seq).
The PhD student will perform integrated evolution-
ary/bioinformatics analyses based on these data and
available mammalian genomes. The speciﬁc project will
be developed together with the candidate.
The language of the institute is English, and its mem-
bers form an international group that is rapidly expand-
ing. The institute is located in Lausanne, a beautiful
city at Lake Geneva.
For more information on the group and our in-
stitute more generally, please refer to our website:
http://www.unil.ch/cig/page7858 en.html Please sub-
mit a CV, statement of research interest, and names
of three references to: Henrik Kaessmann (Hen-
rik.Kaessmann@unil.ch).
– Henrik Kaessmann, Ph.D. Associate Professor Cen-
ter for Integrative Genomics University of Lau-
sanne, Switzerland E-mail: Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch
Phone: +41 (0)21 692 3960
Some recent publications from the lab:
Henrichsen, C., Vinckenbosch, N., Z¨ ollner, S., Chaig-
nat, E., Pradervand, S., Fr´ ed´ eric Sch¨ utz, Ruedi, M.,
*Kaessmann, H. and *Reymond, A. (2009) Segmen-
tal copy number variation shapes tissue transcriptomes.
Nature Genet. 41: 429-9.
Potrzebowski, L., Vinckenbosch, N., Marques, A. C.,
Chalmel, F., Jegou, B. & Kaessmann, H. (2008) Chro-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 35
mosomal Gene Movements Reﬂect the Recent Origin
and Biology of Therian Sex Chromosomes. PLoS Biol.
6: e80.
Brawand, D., Wahli, W. & Kaessmann, H. (2008) Loss
of egg yolk genes in mammals and the origin of lactation
and placentation. PLoS Biol. 6: e63.
Rosso, L., Marques, A. C., Weier, M., Lambert, N.,
Lambot, M.-A., Vanderhaeghen, P. & Kaessmann, H.
(2008) Birth and Rapid Subcellular Adaptation of a
Hominoid-Speciﬁc CDC14 Protein. PLoS Biol. 6: e140.
Vinckenbosch, N., Dupanloup, I. & Kaessmann, H.
(2006) Evolutionary fate of retroposed gene copies in
the human genome. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.
103: 3220-3225.
Marques, A., Dupanloup, I., Vinckenbosch, N., Rey-
mond, A. & Kaessmann, H. (2005) Emergence of young
human genes after a burst of retroposition in primates.
PLoS Biol. 3: e357.
Burki, F. & Kaessmann, H. (2004) Birth and adaptive
evolution of a hominoid gene supporting high neuro-
transmitter ﬂux. Nature Genet. 10: 1061-1063.
Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch
UlmU BatVirusDynamics
PhD Position in Evolutionary Ecology (Coronaviruses
in European and African Bats)
A 3-year PhD student position is available at the Insti-
tute of Experimental Ecology at Ulm University, Prof.
Dr. Elisabeth Kalko, in close collaboration with Prof.
Dr. Christian Drosten (Bonn University; joint project),
to study ecological correlates of emergence and dynam-
ics of novel coronaviruses in Chiroptera (bats) in Eu-
rope and Africa. The research funded by the German
Research Foundation (DFG) will test a range of hy-
potheses integrating virology and ecology.
Involving a combination of analytical and ﬁeld work in
both Germany and West Africa (Ghana), the project
combines molecular, endocrine and behavioural tech-
niques. The selected candidate will conduct ecological
research as part of an established international team of
virologists and ecologists at a well-known West African
research institute providing attractive ﬁeld infrastruc-
ture and will be based at Ulm.
Applicants should have completed a MS degree or
equivalent in ecology or a related discipline and speakEnglish ﬂuently. Experience in experimental design,
statistics and ecological methods is an asset, in partic-
ular previous experience with capture, handling, track-
ing or obtaining samples from birds or bats in tropical
environments. Knowledge of Africa and publications
from previous work would he highly regarded. The se-
lected candidate needs to be willing to repeatedly spend
several months at a time in tropical settings under diﬃ-
cult conditions. This requires organizational skills and
the ability to live and work independently.
Please submit a single PDF ﬁle by e-mail, containing
(a) a cover letter addressing the selection criteria with a
brief summary of background and motivation, (b) CV
including publications and language certiﬁcates if ap-
plicable, (c) abstract of MS thesis and (d) contact in-
formation of two professional referees. Applications will
be reviewed from
1 June 2010 and continue until position is ﬁlled. The
position is available from 1 July 2010 and requires an
EU residency and work permit. Please send your ap-
plication to elisabeth.kalko@uni-ulm.de.
For further information, please refer to: http:/-
/www.uni-ulm.de/nawi/bio3.html http://-
www.virology-bonn.de/drupal6/?q=node/5 http:/-
/www.kccr-ghana.org/ * Dr. Stefan M. Klose
Institute of Experimental Ecology (Bio III) Univer-
sity of Ulm Albert Einstein Allee 11 89069 Ulm,
Germany Fon +49.621.60.28386, +49.731.50.22661
Mobile +49.176.63102147, Fax +49.621.60.6628386
stefan.klose@uni-ulm.de http://tinyurl.com/sklose *
Recently worked on: Klose, SM, Welbergen, AJ, Kalko
EKV (2009) Testosterone is associated with ability to
maintain harems in free-living grey- headed ﬂying-foxes
(Biology Letters) http://tinyurl.com/ﬀharems “Stefan
Klose (Univ Ulm, Bio 3)*” <stefan.klose@uni-ulm.de >
UMunich PlantEvolution
Ph.D. position in plant evolutionary biology
I am looking for a Ph.D. candidate (3 yrs) interested in
the evolution of plant reproductive traits, sexual sys-
tems, or biogeography. Current research topics in our
group can be found at http://www.sysbot.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de/en/people/renner/ . The student would
we employed according to German TV-L 13 and
would be part of Munich University’s graduate pro-
gram in Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics: http:/-
/www.eeslmu.de/ . German language skills are not36 EvolDir June 1, 2010
needed, but writing skills, good work ethics, and the
ability to think creatively and critically are desired.
Munich has a large and active research community in
evolutionary biology and phylogenetics, and the city of-
fers excellent infrastructure and beautiful surroundings.
The closing date for applications is June 15, 2010, or
when the position is ﬁlled. Please send your applica-
tion, together with a full CV, copies of recent-most ed-
ucational certiﬁcates, and the names of two referees to
Susanne Renner (renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de).
Susanne Renner <renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >
UOttawa
EvolutionaryFungalGenomics
University of Ottawa - Evolutionary Fungal Genomics
Three research projects are currently available in
the ﬁeld of evolutionary fungal genomics for highly
motivated graduate students. The research will be
carried out in a newly established, CIFAR (Canadian
Institute for Advanced Research) aﬃliated labora-
tory led by Dr. Nicolas Corradi in the Department
of Biology of the University of Ottawa, Canada.
(http://www2.cifar.ca/research/integrated-microbial-
biodiversity-program/program-members-imb/?i=394 ).
The projects will focus on the genomics of two evolu-
tionary unrelated groups of fungi: the Arbuscular My-
corrhizal Fungi (AMF) and the Microsporidia. Two
graduate thesis projects will involve the study of AMF
genomics in a broad sense, while one graduate student
position is open to study the complete genome sequence
of a recently described microsporidian parasite.
Applicants for the PhD position on AMF genomics
should have some experience in general molecular
biology (PCR, cloning, DNA sequencing) and in-
verted microscopy. Previous experience with either “in
vitro” culturing of AMF, bioinformatics software (e.g.
Consed, Augustus, Artemis), programming (BioPerl)
or with high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies
will represent strong assets for the ﬁnal selection of
candidates. For the graduate project on Microsporidia
genomics, an applicant with some experience with gen-
eral molecular biology (PCR, cloning, DNA sequencing)
and at least one of the following bioinformatics soft-
ware (e.g. Consed, Artemis, Velvet) will be preferred.
Knowledge of programming (BioPerl) is not necessary
for this position but will represent a strong asset for theﬁnal selection of the candidate.
Enquiries about speciﬁc graduate projects can be sent
to Dr. Nicolas Corradi (ncorradi@uottawa.ca). Com-
plete application packages, including a CV (with a
list of publications, if applicable), a brief (1-page)
statement of research interests, and the names and e-
mail addresses of 3 referees should be sent to ncor-
radi@uottawa.ca. Evaluation of applications will start
by July 1st, 2010 and continue until suitable candidates
are found.
Relevant papers:
AMF Genomics: Corradi N., Ruﬀner, B., Croll D., Co-
lard A. and I.R. Sanders. 2009. High molecular di-
versity at the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase gene
among and within species of arbuscular mycorrhizal
fungi. Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 75:
1970-1978 Corradi, N., Croll, D., Colard, A., Kuhn, G.,
Ehinger, M. and I.R. Sanders. 2007. Gene copy num-
ber polymorphisms in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal
population. Applied and Environmental Microbiology
73, 312-319. Corradi, N. and I.R.Sanders, 2006. Evo-
lution of the P-type II ATPase gene family in the fungi
and presence of structural genomic changes among iso-
lates of Glomus intraradices. BMC Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, 6. 21.
Microsporidia Genomics: Corradi N., Pombert, J.F.,
Farinelli, L., Didier, E., and P.J. Keeling. Submitted.
How to make the smallest nuclear genome even smaller:
lessons from the microsporidium Encephalitozoon in-
testinalis. Corradi N., Haag K.L., Pombert J.F. Ebert
D. and P.J. Keeling. 2009. Draft genome sequence of
the Daphnia pathogen Octosporea bayeri: insights into
the gene content, structure and evolution of a large
microsporidian genome and a model for host-parasite
interactions. Genome Biology 10: R106 Lee,S.C., Cor-
radi, N., Byrnes, E.J., Torres-Martinez, S., Dietrich,
F.S., Keeling P.J. and J. Heitman. 2008. Microsporidia
evolved from ancestral sexual fungi. Current Biology.
18: 1675-1679
ncorradi@uottawa.ca
UOxford SocialEvolution
Graduate Research Assistant - Evolutionary Social
Ecology - University of Oxford Grade 6 Starting salary
£25,751 - 30,747 p.a.
A Graduate Research Assistant position is available, forJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 37
2 years and 9 months, from 1 October 2010, to work
on a project studying social networks in birds from an
ecological and evolutionary perspective. The post is
funded as part of an ERC Advanced Investigator grant
of euro 2.5M over ﬁve years to Prof Ben Sheldon. The
post will be based in the Edward Grey Institute, De-
partment of Zoology, University of Oxford. The main
duties of the post-holder will be to carry out ﬁeldwork
around Oxford to collect data on social behaviour and
social relationships in wild birds. The post- holder will
participate in experiments testing a range of hypotheses
about the causes and consequences of social structure
with an emphasis on dispersal. This is an exceptional
opportunity to participate in a major research project,
for which extensive pilot data are already available, and
for which funding is guaranteed at a very high level for
the duration of the project.
The successful candidate will have a BSc in biology or a
related subject, and demonstrate skill and enthusiasm
for biological research. Experience of ﬁeldwork under
arduous conditions, and of working as part of a multi-
disciplinary team are desirable, as are ﬁeldwork skills
involving birds.
The post is based in a dynamic and expanding research-
active institute, of c. 45 people, fully integrated within
the Department of Zoology. Further details about the
institute available at: http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/-
Informal inquiries (with CV) to Prof Ben Sheldon
(ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk); start date 1 October 2010.
Further particulars and application forms can be down-
loaded from http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs or are avail-
able from the Personnel Oﬃce, Department of Zoology,
Tinbergen Building, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3PS (tel: 01865 271190); email: recruit@zoo.ox.ac.uk.
Applications, together with CV and contact details of
three referees and a cover letter explaining how the can-
didate meets the selection criteria, as outlined in the
further particulars, should be sent to the above address
quoting reference number AT10017. The closing date
for applications is 14th June 2010. Interviews will take
place by mid July.
ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk
UPlymouth ConservationGenetics
NERC PhD Studentship
We are seeking an independent and motivated grad-uate to ﬁll a NERC studentship starting in October
2010 investigating genetic diversity, rarity and ﬁtness
in bumblebee (Bombus spp.) populations.
The project will be supervised by Dr Mairi Knight, Dr
Jon Ellis, Dr Richard Billington (School of Biomedi-
cal and Biological Sciences, University of Plymouth,
UK), and Dr Mark Brown (School of Biological Sci-
ences, Royal Holloway, University of London, UK).
Project Description
There is growing recognition of the urgency with which
we need to address the issue of pollinator declines,
alongside general concern over the relevance and use-
fulness of our current approaches to measuring popula-
tion viability and health in a conservation context. The
studentship will sit alongside and build on an existing
project, taking a comparative, multi-disciplinary ap-
proach to assessing whether measures of neutral genetic
diversity and population size are relevant as proxies for
population viability, speciﬁcally quantifying how they
relate to direct measures of ﬁtness in bumblebee (Bom-
bus) populations. The overarching aim of the project
is to develop tools that are ﬁt for the purpose of active
population monitoring and management while at the
same time directly testing widely adopted but increas-
ingly queried theoretical assumptions linking rarity, ge-
netic diversity, and ﬁtness.
The project oﬀers a rich opportunity for a student to de-
velop a signiﬁcant breadth and depth of key skills in the
biological sciences, including ﬁeld sampling, genotyping
and genetic analysis, immunological and biochemical
assays, and parasites/pathogen screening. The success-
ful candidate would be based in Plymouth but would
also spend some time developing speciﬁc skills under
the supervision of Dr Mark Brown at Royal Holloway,
University of London.
Qualiﬁcations and experience required Candidates
should have a demonstrable enthusiasm for this gen-
eral ﬁeld of study and hold a minimum of an upper
second class degree in a relevant subject (e.g. Biol-
ogy, Ecology, Genetics). We welcome applications from
candidates with a relevant MSc or MRes. No previous
knowledge of the study organism or experience in ﬁeld
sampling, biochemical assays, molecular ecology or pest
and pathogen screening is strictly essential although ex-
perience in any of these areas, particularly standard
laboratory techniques, would be an advantage. A full
UK driver’s licence would also be beneﬁcial.
Further Information
The personal maintenance stipend for NERC stu-
dentships for 2010/11 will be approximately £13,590
per annum (non-taxable). The position is open to UK38 EvolDir June 1, 2010
citizens and EU citizens who have been resident or stud-
ied in the UK for 3 years. For full eligibility require-
ments see http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/eligibility.asp . For further information or an
informal discussion on the project please contact Dr
Mairi Knight (mairi.knight@plymouth.ac.uk). General
information on the supervisors’ research proﬁles can be
found on the University of Plymouth and Royal Hol-
loway websites: http://www.plymouth.ac.uk/schools/-
bioand http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Biological-Sciences/ .
Application procedure
Please submit a covering letter with your ap-
plication explaining your suitability for the
post. For further details on how to apply,
please visit www.plymouth.ac.uk/pghowtoapply
or contact Catherine Johnson (email: cather-
ine.johnson@plymouth.ac.uk ). Completed appli-
cations can be returned to: Catherine Johnson,
Graduate School Research Oﬃce, Faculty of Science
& Technology, Rm A504 Portland Square, Plymouth,
PL4 8AA.
The closing date for applications is Friday 18 June 2010
and interviews are expected to be held in the week com-
mencing 28 June 2010.
Applicants who have not received an invitation to in-
terview by the end of June should consider that their
application has been unsuccessful on this occasion.
mairi.knight@plymouth.ac.uk
UQuebecRimouski
CrustaceanGeneFlow
NSERC-funded Ph.D. position on gene ﬂow in crus-
taceans at the Universit´ e du Qu´ ebec ` a Rimouski
Following the opening of the Bering Strait some 7.4
to 4.8 million years ago, many Paciﬁc taxa invaded
the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans. The subse-
quent closing of the Bering strait has allowed indepen-
dent evolution of the Paciﬁc and Atlantic populations
and establishment of vicariant taxa in many organisms.
With the projected opening of the northwest passage
through climate changes, there will be opportunities for
new genetic exchanges among the three oceans. This
Ph.D. studentship will examine these questions in a se-
lected number of crustacean taxa using mitochondrial
and nuclear makers. Levels of cryptic diversity prior
to re-opening of the Arctic and expected levels basedon past and contemporary gene ﬂow will be assessed.
This project is part of the Canadian Marine Biodiver-
sity Network CHONe.
Applicants should email a covering letter and CV to
France Dufresne (France dufresne@uqar.qc.ca). The
CV should include: 1. Contact details (including e-
mail addresses) for the applicant and 2 referees who
would be available to provide references.
France Dufresne@UQAR.QC.CA
UYork EvolutionaryEcology
NERC PhD studentship project Risks of pharma-
ceuticals to wild birds Supervisors: Dr Kathryn
Arnold (ka619@york.ac.uk), Dr Alistair Box-
all (abab500@york.ac.uk), & Dr Piran White
(pclw1@york.ac.uk)
Pollutants have long been shown to inﬂuence ﬁtness-
related traits in wild animals. Emerging but under
studied risks are those posed by pharmaceuticals and
personal care products (PPCPs) is the environment.
These compounds can enter the environment via ani-
mal excretory products, or via wastewater and treated
and untreated sewage, and may end up in freshwater
or terrestrial ecosystems. Some fat-soluble PPCPs can
accumulate in animal tissues, and recent research has
shown that certain substances such as Prozac can aﬀect
the reproductive hormones in certain aquatic animals.
They also have the potential to bioaccumulate through
the food chain, but the extent of this and its possible
eﬀects are unknown.
This project will consider the risk of veterinary drugs to
wild birds, using toxicological and ecological ﬁeld and
modelling approaches. It will focus on: (a) uptake into
food items; b) uptake into the animals themselves; (c)
eﬀects of exposure on ﬁtness related traits; and (d) risks
to individuals and populations. The student will have
the opportunity to develop expertise in ﬁeld ecology,
ecotoxicology and biological modelling.
Informal enquiries can be made to Dr Kathryn Arnold
ka619@york.ac.uk
For more information on the application proce-
dure check the following University of York website:
http://www.york.ac.uk/graduatestudy/applying/ .Ap-
plications should be submitted to the Graduate Schools
Oﬃce by May 31st, 2010. Please include with your ap-
plication: (i) a full CV and (ii) a brief covering letterJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 39
explaining why you are interested in the project and
indicate which project you are applying for as well as
the name of the supervisor (s). Interviews are planned
for the second week of June 2010.
For further information on the application process,
contact: The Graduate Schools Oﬃce, University of
York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD, UK E-mail: gradu-
ate@york.ac.uk (postal applicants and all other general
enquiries) Qualiﬁcations: For the NERC studentship
candidates should have a good ﬁrst degree (minimum
2:1) in any of the following disciplines: geography, en-
vironmental science, chemistry, maths or subjects rele-
vant to the project they are applying for. An appropri-
ate Masters degree will be an advantage. Applications
from individuals with applied or business experience
is welcome. Generally only UK residents are eligible
for NERC funding. To check: http://www.nerc.ac.uk/-
funding/available/postgrad/eligibility.asp Dr Kathryn
Arnold
Environment Department, University of York, YORK
YO10 5DD, UK
tel +44 (0) 1904 434067
ka619@york.ac.uk
http://www.york.ac.uk/depts/eeem/people/arnold/-
arnold.htm Kathryn Arnold <ka619@york.ac.uk >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
just a quick reminder-the deadline for applications
(25.5.2010) is approaching...
PhD positions in Population Genetics
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents that builds on this outstanding on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the fol-
lowing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolution-
ary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and exper-
imental population genetics. Students from related dis-
ciplines, such as physics or mathematics are also wel-
come to apply.
Available topics include: - The role of population sub-
division in maintaining genetic variation and induc-ing divergence - Evolutionary genetics of aging in the
D. simulans clade - Statistical methods for detecting
various types of selection in genetic data - New algo-
rithm and models to analyze population genetic mas-
sive parallel sequence data - Population genetic esti-
mators from NGS data - Population genetics of inter-
speciﬁc adaptation and diﬀerentiation - Probabilistic
models for the population genetics of molecular evolu-
tion - Investigating the molecular basis of morphologi-
cal evolution within and between species - The genetics
of two closely related species of Aquilegia - Measuring
gene ﬂow by massively parallel sequencing - Admixture
mapping with Bayesian probabilistic models for genome
wide population genetic data
Applications need to be received by 21.5.2010 and in-
clude CV, motivation letter, two letters of recommen-
dation and an indication of the two preferred topics in
a single pdf.
More information about the about the Vienna Grad-
uate School of Population Genetics, the training pro-
gram and the application procedure can be found at
www.popgen-vienna.at . Christian Schl¨ otterer Insti-
tut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik Veterin¨ armedizinische Uni-
versit¨ at Wien Josef Baumann Gasse 1 1210 Wien
Austria/Europe phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-
1-25077-4390 http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at VetCore Illumina Sequenc-
ing Service http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/seq/-
VetCore2.htm schlotc@gmail.com
Vienna
TheoreticalEvolutionaryBiology
PhD-position in theoretical evolutionary biology, Vi-
enna
A 3-year PhD-position in theoretical evolutionary bi-
ology is available in the Mathematics and BioSciences
Group at the University of Vienna (see www.mabs.at ).
The successful applicant will work with Michael Kopp
on a recently funded project aimed at studying the
genetic basis of adaptation to changing environments.
Other project partners include Joachim Hermisson,
Reinhard B¨ urger (both University of Vienna) and
Thomas Lenormand (CNRS Montpellier).
The project will be based on the “moving op-
timum model” of adaptation to gradually chang-40 EvolDir June 1, 2010
ing environments (see recent Genetics papers at
www.mabs.at:kopp/publications.html ). This model
shall be extended by including adaptation from stand-
ing genetic variation and evolution of multiple corre-
lated traits, using a combination of methods from math-
ematical population genetics and computer simulations.
As part of the project, the student will have the oppor-
tunity to spend several months in Montpellier to work
with T. Lenormand.
Applicants should be either biologists with good
knowledge of mathematics or applied mathemati-
cians/physicists/computer scientists with a strong in-
terest in evolutionary biology. Previous experience in
population genetics will be an asset. Knowledge of Ger-
man is not required.
Informal inquiries as well as formal applications (in-
cluding a statement of research interests, a CV
and contact information for two academic refer-
ences, in a single PDF ﬁle) should be addressed tomichael.kopp@univie.ac.at. Review of applications will
start June 15 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
The ideal starting date is October 2010, but this is ﬂex-
ible and can be negotiated.
Vienna is one of the most attractive cities worldwide,
and its scientiﬁc community provides a vibrant and
stimulating environment with a unique depth of exper-
tise in diﬀerent areas of both theoretical and empiri-
cal evolutionary biology (see www.evolvienna.at ). The
monthly gross salary is around 1850 Euros.
– Dr. Michael Kopp Postdoctoral researcher Mathe-
matics and Biosciences Group Max F. Perutz Labora-
tories University of Vienna
Dr. Bohr-Gasse 9 (postal address) VBC 5,
room 1722 (physical address) A-1030 Wien Phone:
++43 (0) 1 4277 24052 Mobile: ++43 (0)
664 60277 24052 Fax: ++43 (0) 1 4277 24098
Email: michael.kopp@univie.ac.at www.mabs.at
michael.kopp@univie.ac.at
Jobs
Cincinnati EPA ResTech PopulationGenetics . . . . . . 40
ColoradoStateU NaturalSciencesDean . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
DukeU LaboratoryHelp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Mexico FieldTech MosquitoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
MichiganStateU Director with EvolBiol experience 43
MichiganStateU ResAssist MammalianGeneticStruc-
ture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Munich EvolutionProgramCoordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
MuseumKoenig Bonn Herpetology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
NewYorkU ResTech PhenotypicVariation . . . . . . . . . . 45
PurdueU ResTech TurtlePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . 46
UArizona iPlant ProgrammerAnalyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UBern Zambia CichlidBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47UCaliforniaSanDiego DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . 47
UCapeTown AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UdelosAndes PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UKansasLawrence ResTech HydrozoanSystematics 49
UKansas ResTech DrosophilaVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
ULouvian TeachingAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
USDA Montana EvolutionInvasivePlants . . . . . . . . . . 51
UTexas ResTech FishHostParasite Coevolution . . . . 51
UZurich ResAssist Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
WoodsHole ResAssist MarineMicrobeDiversity . . . . . 53
YaleU 2yearLectureship SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . 53
Cincinnati EPA ResTech
PopulationGeneticsThe Ecological Exposure Research Division (EERD) of
the National Exposure Research Laboratory (NERL),
Oﬃce of Research and Development (ORD), U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency (EPA), located in Cincin-
nati Ohio, is seeking an individual, at least 18 years of
age who is either a student (in good standing enrolled inJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 41
a degree program, not necessarily carrying a full course
load, but pursuing a degree at a recognized educational
institution) or recent graduate (graduated with a degree
from a college or university with the past two years) to
provide services under a contractual agreement to pro-
vide technical laboratory support for research projects
focusing on any of the following projects: (1) use of
population genetics approaches to reconstruct histo-
ries, spread and other facets related to aquatic invasive
species; (2) development of molecular techniques to in-
ventory and quantify organisms collected from stream,
river, lake, and other samples; (3) population genetic
studies of aquatic organisms subjected to one or more
environmental stressors. Work involved with the tasks
may include, but is not limited to: (1) tissue and sam-
ple collection and organization; (2) DNA extractions;
(3) PCR ampliﬁcation and puriﬁcation; (4) molecu-
lar cloning; (5) microsatellite genotyping; (6) DNA se-
quencing; (7) analysis of genotype and DNA sequence
data; and (8) other general laboratory and ﬁeld duties
necessary to carry out research (e.g., sample collection
and transport, routine equipment maintenance).
The student/recent graduate contractor should ideally
possess skills/experience in speciﬁc molecular biology
laboratory work, such as DNA extraction and PCR
chemistry and also general laboratory practices, includ-
ing health and safety, as well as having completed a
B.S. degree in Biology, or a related sub-discipline such
as Genetics, Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Environ-
mental Sciences, Zoology or Botany, within the past 24
months.
This work is projected to begin as soon as possible, de-
pending upon the availability of the selected student
contractor, and represents a not-to-exceed estimate of
1880 hours of eﬀort for one year, with an option to con-
tinue an additional year. The hourly rate is commensu-
rate with the minimum required level of education and
experience, as follows: $22.01 per hour.
U.S. citizens are eligible to participate in this program.
Non-U.S. citizens may be eligible to participate, de-
pending on their immigration status and the applicable
regulations of the United States Citizenship and Im-
migration Service (USCIS). All non-US citizens must
submit, as part of their proposal package, evidence of
their immigration status that allows them to work in
the United States. EPA ORD employees, their spouses,
and children are NOT eligible to participate in this pro-
gram and receive these contracts.
To see further details and to apply for the position go to:
http://www.epa.gov/oamrtpnc/q1000145/index.htm .
This job posting is currently scheduled to close May
7, however the application period may be extended de-pending on the number of qualiﬁed applicants respond-
ing by that date.
martinson.john@epa.gov
ColoradoStateU
NaturalSciencesDean
Position Description Dean of the College of Natural Sci-
ences, Colorado State University
Colorado State University (CSU) seeks a visionary
leader to serve as dean of the College of Natural Sci-
ences (CNS). The dean is the chief administrative and
academic oﬃcer with responsibility for leadership in co-
ordinating and overseeing the Colleges programs, bud-
gets and related activities including resident instruc-
tion, research, outreach and international activities.
The dean is responsible for annual appropriated bud-
get allocations of $25 million for resident instruction
as well as oversight of annual research budgets of ap-
proximately $25 million. The dean reports directly to
the Provost/Academic Vice President. The College of
Natural Sciences is one of eight colleges within Colorado
State University. The CNS has eight departments: Bio-
chemistry and Molecular Biology, Biology, Chemistry,
Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology
and Statistics.
Colorado State University, Fort Collins, is a Carnegie
Doctoral/Research University-Extensive land-grant in-
stitution enrolling approximately 25,000 students from
49 states and 82 countries. Fort Collins, located 60
miles north of Denver at the base of the Front Range
of the Rocky Mountains, is a rapidly growing commu-
nity with a population of approximately 150,000. Fort
Collins enjoys a temperate, semi-arid climate and rich
cultural and recreational opportunities.
The search committee will accept conﬁdential appli-
cations and nominations until the position is ﬁlled.
For full consideration, a complete application must
be received electronically by July 15, 2010. To view
the complete job description, please go to http://-
www.natsci.colostate.edu/employment/Dean/ . Ques-
tions or nominations should be directed to Patsy Harlan
at patsy.harlan@colostate.edu.
Colorado State University is an EO/AA employer and
conducts background checks on all ﬁnal candidates.
Lisa Angeloni42 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Lisa Angeloni <angeloni@lamar.colostate.edu >
DukeU LaboratoryHelp
Job for a recent college grad...
Full-time teaching/prep positions in the Biology 102L
“Genetics and Evolution” course at Duke University
Position description: Work full time (40 hours/week)
as a teaching assistant and laboratory prep assistant
in the introductory biology program for the 2010-2011
academic year. The position has two main components,
teaching and behind-the-scenes laboratory preparation.
Teaching component: The primary teaching responsi-
bility of the position is to lead laboratory sections of up
to 12 students in the Biology Departmentˆ as new genet-
ics and evolution Gateway course, Biology102L. Each
Biology 102L section meets weekly for 2.5 hours for a
combined hands-on laboratory/problem-based learning
session. Additional teaching responsibilities include (a)
attending and taking notes at all course lectures in-
cluding the weekly large discussion section, (b) grad-
ing weekly student written assignments and occasional
oral presentations, (c) helping with the preparation and
grading of mid-semester hourly and ﬁnal exams, and
(d) assisting students during oﬃce hours and otherwise
mentoring students as beginning biologists.
Teaching assistants should plan to return to Durham
early the week of August 23, 2010, and are expected to
participate in a teacher-training workshop before the
fall semester begins. TAs also attend weekly prep ses-
sions during the semester on Monday afternoons.
Prep component: The second set of duties associated
with the position is to assist in the preparatory work for
the teaching labs in Biology 101L, 102L, and the labo-
ratory diversity course, Biology 106L, as determined by
the Lab Administrator. Responsibilities include setting
up and putting away equipment and specimens for lab-
oratory exercises, maintaining supplies in lab rooms be-
tween sections, cleaning glassware, assisting with ﬁeld
collection of live specimens, and helping to care for a
diverse collection of invertebrate animals in salt-water
aquaria. The lab prep workload is likely to require
evening (until 10 PM) and/or early morning (8 AM)
work.
Salary: The projected salary for the position is $17,500.
Employment begins on August 23, 2010 and ends May
9, 2011 with payment made in 9 equal amounts on the25th of each month starting in September and ending
in May. Full-time teaching/prep employees are eligible
for health plans made available by the University.
Qualiﬁcations: Applicants should have a strong, var-
ied background in biology, especially genetics and evo-
lution, with a superior science GPA. A very important
attribute is a high level of energy and an enthusiasm for
teaching genetics and evolution. Prior enrollment in Bi-
ology 25L, 118, and 116, or the equivalent, is highly de-
sirable; experience tending Drosophila is a plus. Teach-
ing assistants in Biology 102L are expected to be ac-
tively engaged with their students in all aspects of the
course and to serve as role models and mentors. Be-
cause they are a vital part of the introductory biology
teaching team both in the classroom and behind the
scenes, full-time assistants must be willing to commit
themselves fully to the responsibilities of the position
described above and as determined by the faculty mem-
bers in charge of the Gateway course.
Interviews and Application Process: Formal interviews
are planned to begin after May 3, 2010. Hiring decisions
will be made on a rolling basis thereafter, continuing as
necessary.
Interested applicants should provide (a) a cover letter,
(b) a transcript, and (c) a resume with the names of
two references (preferably at Duke for Duke students
or alumni) to Julie Noor. These may be emailed to
jkfnoor@duke.edu, delivered to Julie Noorˆ as oﬃce (070
BioSci.) or to her mailbox in the Department of Bi-
ology, or mailed to her at the Department of Biology,
Box 90338, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0338.
To be assured of consideration, applications should be
submitted by May 3, 2010.
For more information contact Julie Noor by phone at
919-613-8224 or e-mail at jkfnoor@duke.edu
noor@duke.edu
Mexico FieldTech
MosquitoEvolution
A ﬁeld technician is needed for a project in Tapachula,
Mexico from June through August, 2010. This project
is looking at larval ecology of the mosquito Aedes ae-
gypti. Aedes aegypti is a vector of Dengue Fever. These
mosquitoes develop as larvae in containers of water in
and around peoples’ houses. In order to design more ef-
ﬁcient approaches for controlling Ae. aegypti it is crit-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 43
ical to understand the factors that regulate the larval
population within water-ﬁlled containers. These stud-
ies focus on understanding the impact of density and
competition on the population. Field work involves
collecting buckets from people’s houses to use for the
experiments, counting larvae everyday, identifying lar-
val instars and identifying adult mosquitoes. We are
looking for a person that has the following skills: pays
close attention to detail, experience with microscopes,
willing to work long hours, tolerant of mosquitoes, and
able to be lead a 2 person team. Knowledge of Spanish
is preferable but not required for application.
Lodging and Food will be covered, Air transportation
is negotiable.
For more information on the project please visit the fol-
lowing website and click on people, bios and projects:
Rachael Katz
http://www4.ncsu.edu/ ˜ fgould/index1.html To Ap-
ply: Please send a cover letter, resume, and references
to rskatz@ncsu.edu
“Rachael S. Katz” <rachael katz@ncsu.edu >
MichiganStateU Director with
EvolBiol experience
Oﬃce of the Vice President for Research and Graduate
Studies
Fixed-term, 12-month basis, 100% time
Minimum salary is $75,000
Duties: Managing Director of a new NSF Science and
Technology Center being established, to operate Au-
gust 1, 2010 - July 31, 2021, and headquartered at
Michigan State University. Position reports to the Di-
rector of the BEACON Center. The administrative
team to be managed includes an administrative assis-
tant, education director, diversity director, bookkeeper,
knowledge transfer manager, K-12 outreach manager,
and one or more information technologists. Managing
Director duties include working with Center faculty and
staﬀ to:
1) assist the director and the center’s Executive Com-
mittee in formulating center policies and planning of
center activities (research, education, outreach)
2) administer the process for allocation of funds to
projects, on an annual basis, in coordination with allof the partner institutions
3) prepare reports to the National Science Foundation
documenting all Center activities and their outcomes,
including ﬁnancial, scientiﬁc, educational, and outreach
4) coordinate with partner universities to oversee their
conduct of Center-funded projects
5) coordinate with other staﬀ to organize the meetings,
conferences and workshops sponsored by the Center,
and to prepare for site visits to the Center by its Exter-
nal Advisory Committee and by the National Science
Foundation
6) prepare renewal proposals for the Center’s NSF fund-
ing, and assist Center faculty and staﬀ in preparation
of new proposals for additional center-related activities
7) participate in one or more of the center’s research,
education, or outreach projects, including, ideally, ones
initiated by the successful candidate for this position
Qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. in a natural science or an engi-
neering discipline, including computer science, or re-
lated area. Qualiﬁcations other than degree: substan-
tial experience in conduct of funded research projects,
as a PI, co-PI, or research associate; preparation of
research proposals and authorship of professional arti-
cles, preferably including content related to evolution-
ary biology and/or computational evolution. Experi-
ence managing a group of researchers is preferred.
Applications: Due June 15, 2010. Position to begin
August 1, 2010. Late submissions will be considered if
a suitable candidate pool is not identiﬁed by the dead-
line. MSU is an equal-opportunity employer. MSU is
committed to achieving excellence through cultural di-
versity. The university actively encourages applications
and/or nominations of women, persons of color, veter-
ans and persons with disabilities. Cover letter, resume,
names of three references and 2-page statement describ-
ing interest in the position to goodman@egr.msu.edu.
All interested parties are to apply to good-
man@egr.msu.edu
j.dunican@jobtarget.com
MichiganStateU ResAssist
MammalianGeneticStructure
Research Assistant I - Department of Fisheries and
Wildlife, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI44 EvolDir June 1, 2010
*** Please apply online at http://www.hr.msu.edu/-
hiring/msujobs.htm ****
Posting Number: 3852 Department of Fisheries and
Wildlife Position type: Research Position title: Re-
search Assistant I
Position Summary: The Department seeks a highly mo-
tivated individual to join the Scribner lab as a full time
Research Assistant I beginning in the summer of 2010.
The successful applicant will contribute to projects in
the area of mammalian landscape genetics that em-
ploy molecular, remote censusing, and ﬁeld-based ap-
proaches to understand the importance of land-use and
land-cover on spatial genetic structure of mammalian
species in Michigan. The Scribner lab is housed in the
Natural Resources Building on the Michigan State Uni-
versity campus; a collaborative research group with in-
terests in evolutionary ecology, behavioral ecology, and
resource conservation.
Additional Information: Responsibilities will include
but are not restricted to: DNA extraction and quan-
tiﬁcation, PCR, microsatellite and mtDNA sequenc-
ing, data base management, coordination of molecular
and ecological data bases, general lab organization and
maintenance. Opportunities for ﬁeld research exist.
Basic Qualiﬁcations: Applications should have an in-
terest in ecological genetics including applications of
landscape and phylogeographic theory to studies of
population and individual-based analyses of spatial ge-
netic structure. The position requires an independent,
highly organized and motivated individual with experi-
ence with generation of molecular data and integration
and analyses of genetic and ecological data bases. Edu-
cational requirements include knowledge equivalent to
that which normally would be acquired by completing
a B.A., B.S. or M.S. degree in zoology, molecular bi-
ology, microbiology, genetics, or related ﬁelds; one to
three years of related and progressively more responsi-
ble or expansive work experience, including knowledge
and skills in: DNA sequencing, microsatellite and/or
SNP genotyping, and PCR, and experience in areas of
curation, manipulation, and analysis of molecular ge-
netic databases and operation of laboratory equipment,
including automated sequencing/genotyping platforms;
knowledge of computer operation, database manage-
ment, and use of word processing software and soft-
ware associated with genotyping and sequencing data;
knowledge of safe laboratory practices and safety regu-
lations; or an equivalent combination of education and
experience; possession of a valid vehicle operator’s li-
cense.
Required Applicant Documents: Resume/CV Cover
Letter ReferencesContacts: Sarah Wescott, Administrative Asst. Hu-
man Resources Oﬃce Michigan State University Tel:
(517)-884-0211 Email: kovachsa@msu.edu
Kim Scribner, Professor Department of Fisheries &
Wildlife and Department of Zoology 13 Natural Re-
sources Building Michigan State University East Lans-
ing, Michigan 48824-1222 tel: (517)-353-3288 (of-
ﬁce) (517)-432-4935 (lab) fax: (517)-432-1699 email:
scribne3@msu.edu website: http://www.fw.msu.edu/-
˜scribne3/ scribne3@msu.edu
Munich
EvolutionProgramCoordinator
The EES-LMU Graduate Program in Evolution, Ecol-
ogy and Systematics at the University of Munich
(LMU) is looking for a
*Coordinator (full time)*
for our Master and Ph.D. programs, our summer school,
and our seminar series. The coordinator will also be
the local organizer of a joint Erasmus Mundus Master
Program (MEME) that is a collaboration with the Uni-
versities of Groningen, Uppsala, and Montpellier (with
Harvard University as an external partner). The ideal
candidate should have a degree (preferably a Ph.D.) in
biology or a related ﬁeld. He/she should be highly moti-
vated and have good communication skills. The oﬃcial
language of the programs is English, but knowledge of
German is also desirable. Experience with teaching,
administration or curriculum coordination is an advan-
tage.
The novel, research-oriented EES-LMU Master pro-
gram started in fall 2007, mainly with international
students. Currently about 20 students are enrolled, and
we expect this number to increase in the future. The
EES-LMU Ph.D. program started in 2008 and currently
has about 30 students. The EES-LMU Graduate Pro-
gram is run by the Biology Department of the LMU. In
addition, the LMU Department of Earth- and Environ-
mental Sciences, the Max Planck Institute for Ornithol-
ogy, and the Bavarian Natural History Collections are
involved. The MEME program will welcome its ﬁrst
Master students in fall 2010, with up to 32 students
spread over the 4 partner universities. The coordinator
functions as an interface between university administra-
tion, international partners, instructors, and students,
and he/she could also be involved in teaching.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 45
For more information on the programs, please see the
websites:
http://www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki http://-
www.evobio.eu/ EES-LMU oﬀers a great working
environment for someone interested in science and
teaching, and who enjoys interacting with students and
professors to improve education in evolution, ecology
and systematics. The initial appointment will be
for 2 years, with the possibility of extension pending
funding, and will be paid at TV¨ oD 13 according to
the German salary scale. The application deadline is
May 28, 2010. Interviews will be held in early June.
Informal inquiries and applications including a letter
of motivation, CV, and contact information of two
references should be sent (preferably by email as a
single pdf ﬁle) to:
Prof. John Parsch Department of Biology II Univer-
sity of Munich Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-
Martinsried Germany parsch@bio.lmu.de
parsch@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
MuseumKoenig Bonn Herpetology
The Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexander
Koenig (ZFMK), Bonn ( http://www.zfmk.de ), seeks
to ﬁll the position of a researcher in the Department
of Vertebrates (successor of Prof. Wolfgang B¨ ohme).
The position is expected to be available by Decem-
ber 2010. Potential candidates will hold a PhD in
zoology or related areas, have their research focus
on systematics of reptiles and/or amphibians, and
present a substantial publication record in taxonomic,
phylogenetic and other biosystematic research. The
candidate is expected to work in these ﬁelds from a
sound theoretical basis and be able to apply an array
of appropriate modern methods. He/she should be
able to combine collection-based work with modern
phylogenetic and/or ecological approaches. The candi-
date is also expected to integrate into ongoing research
projects at the ZFMK and teaching programmes in
the University of Bonn and to be successful in raising
external funds.
The successful candidate will be active in research
projects and will be responsible as a curator for car-
ing, managing and further increasing and developing
the substantial, internationally important amphibian
and reptile collections in the ZFMK. He/she will also
be involved in the self-administration of the instituteand may eventually serve as the head of the vertebrate
department. The candidate is also expected to demon-
strate commitment to community engaement in his/her
ﬁeld of research.
The successful candidate will be employed for an ini-
tial period of ﬁve years, after which he/she will obtain
tenure depending on his/her performance. According
to German law, applications by women and by disabled
scientists will be given priority in case of superior or
equal qualiﬁcations. Depending on occupational qual-
iﬁcations and experience, salary corresponds to grade
TV-L/13 - 15 in the German Public Service scheme.
The ZFMK is a fellow institute of the “Wissenschafts-
gemeinschaft Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz” (WGL Sci-
ence Community) and works in close cooperation with
the University of Bonn. It comprises internationally
important scientiﬁc collections, libraries, electron mi-
croscopy,and bioacoustic, histological and molecular
laboratories.
Interested applicants should submit a CV, complete
publication record, a statement of teaching experience
and research funding, certiﬁcates of university degrees,
and selected publications in hard copies to the following
address:
Prof. Dr. J.W. W¨ agele, Director, Zoologisches
Forschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig, Adenauerallee
160, D-53113 Bonn, Germany, by August 31 2010. E-
mail inquiries: <w.waegele.zfmk@uni-bonn.de >.
Prof. Dr. J. Wolfgang Waegele Direktor Zoologisches
Forschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig und Lehrstuhl
f¨ ur Spezielle Zoologie Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-
Universit¨ at Bonn Adenauerallee 160 53113 Bonn, Ger-
many
w.waegele.zfmk@uni-bonn.de
Tel.: 0049 (0) 228 9122 200 Fax: 0049 (0) 2289122 202
http://www.zfmk.de
Werden Sie Mitglied der Alexander Koenig
Gesellschaft! ( http://www.zfmk.de/web/Foerderer/-
Freunde/index.de.html )
“W. Waegele” <w.waegele.zfmk@uni-bonn.de >
NewYorkU ResTech
PhenotypicVariation
The Rockman Lab at NYU seeks a research technician46 EvolDir June 1, 2010
to support its research into the genetic basis of phe-
notypic variation ( http://homepages.nyu.edu/ ˜ mr176
).
The technician will be responsible for routine labo-
ratory operations, including ordering supplies, main-
taining inventories, preparing media and reagents, and
managing our frozen strain collection. In addition,
the technician will have a major role in experimental
analysis of phenotypic traits (behavioral, morphologi-
cal, cellular, and molecular) in our research organisms,
Caenorhabditis nematodes. There is also space for de-
velopment of independent projects.
Applicants should be capable, organized, responsible,
and motivated, with experience in experimental biol-
ogy. Worm experience is not essential. The start date
is negotiable; our preference is for a start between May
31 and July 23.
Our laboratory is part of the Department of Biology
and Center for Genomics and Systems Biology at New
York University, located in the heart of Greenwich Vil-
lage in Manhattan. The collaborative and collegial re-
search environment is ideal for work in evolutionary
functional genomics. New York University is an equal
opportunity employer.
Applicants should send a CV outlining their qualiﬁca-
tions to mrockman@nyu.edu .
Matthew Rockman Department of Biology and Center
for Genomics & Systems Biology New York University
100 Washington Square East, Rm 1009 New York, NY
10003 (212) 998 8490
mrockman@nyu.edu
PurdueU ResTech
TurtlePopulationGenetics
Description: This is a three-month technician job that
is part of a study of the population genetics of eastern
box turtles. The technician will help search for eastern
box turtles in the wild across Indiana and help with var-
ious laboratory duties at Purdue when weather permits.
Duties will include 1.) travelling independently or with
a grad student around Indiana and conducting visual
surveys for eastern box turtles, 2.) collecting morpho-
logical data and taking a tissue sample from each indi-
vidual, 3.) entering data, 4.) independently performing
various laboratory procedures such as DNA extraction
and PCR. Note housing is provided only when travel-ing; applicant responsible for housing while doing lab-
oratory work.
Qualiﬁcations: the successful applicant will be ener-
getic, willing to work outdoors in inclement weather
and exposed to insects, thorns, storms, etc. Experience
in wildlife, biology or related ﬁeld is preferred. Experi-
ence with simple GPS data, turtle locating, and genet-
ics laboratory experience are also preferred. A drivers
license and a good driving record are required. Sub-
mit 1.) a cover letter describing why you are the best
candidate for the job, 2.) a CV and 3.) the names
and contact information for three references to Steve
Kimble at skimble@purdue.edu.
Steve Kimble PhD student, Department of
Forestry and Natural Resources Purdue Uni-
versity skimble@purdue.edu sjkimble@gmail.com
205.337.4843 http://web.ics.purdue.edu/-
˜ rodw/Steve%20Kimble.htm steve kimble
<sjkimble@gmail.com >
UArizona iPlant
ProgrammerAnalyst
iPlant Tree of Life Engagement Team Analyst
The iPlant Tree of Life (iPToL) project ( http://-
iptol.iplantcollaborative.org ) is seeking an engagement
team analyst (ETA) to work at the BIO5 Institute at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. The ETA serves
as a liaison between scientiﬁc working groups the iPlant
software development team. This involves active dis-
cussion with the scientists, research into appropriate
supporting technologies, and the judicious application
of technical judgment to convert working group conver-
sation into practical design requirements.
The primary responsibilities of the iPToL Engagement
Team Analyst include:
- Translation of working group discussions into for-
mal software requirements - Tool research and evalua-
tion, prototype software development - Attending work-
ing group meetings and leading technical discussions -
Working with scientiﬁc collaborators to develop work-
ﬂows and narratives - Performing related duties as as-
signed by the iPToL Scientiﬁc Lead and Project Man-
ager
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS - Advanced degree
(MS or Ph.D) in a life science discipline (biology, ge-
netics, biochemistry, etc.). Candidates with a degree inJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 47
another natural science, computer science, information
technology or a related discipline will also be considered
with a demonstrated track record of research experience
in the life sciences; - 2-3 years work experience conduct-
ing computational biology research and/or collabora-
tive scientiﬁc software development (academic, govern-
ment, or industry); - interest in science and technology
and ability to rapidly adapt to new technologies; - excel-
lent oral presentation and communications skills; - ad-
vanced ability to work independently under established
deadlines and as part of a team; - ability to travel as
required to partner/collaborator institutions, relevant
conferences, etc.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS - A research back-
ground in evolutionary biology or phylogenetics - ex-
perience in projects involving advanced computing and
information technologies used in life science research in
academia, government laboratories, and/or industry; -
strong programming skills - proven ability to promote
and support the use of high-performance computing, vi-
sualization, networking, and massive data storage sys-
tems to scientists to expand their research impact.
To apply to this position, please visit http://-
tinyurl.com/iptol-eta Sheldon McKay, PhD En-
gagement Team Scientiﬁc Lead, iPlant Collaborative
BIO5 Institute, University of Arizona Email: mck-
ays@email.arizona.edu Google Voice: (203) 701-9204
sheldon.mckay@gmail.com
UBern Zambia CichlidBreeding
Short title: Swizerland/Zambia Field assistant cooper-
ative breeding African cichlids UnivBern
“2 ﬁeld assistant to study cooperative breeding African
cichlids, Lake Tanganyika (Zambia)
The project investigates the inﬂuences of personalities
on helping behavior and ﬁtness prospects in the highly
social, cooperatively breeding cichlid Neolamprologus
pulcher. It is part of an ongoing project which has
been launched in 2009 attempting to follow perma-
nently marked individuals over several years. The ﬁeld
assistants will be involved in catching, marking and
testing individuals and carrying out behavioral obser-
vations under water using Psion PDAs and Observer
software of marked ﬁsh in their natural group. We
search for 2 ﬁeld assistants for the ﬁeld season of the
University of Bern in autumn 2010. The ﬁeld work willlast 3 months and takes place near Mpulungu, Zambia,
starting end of August /beginning of September. Can-
didates must hold a SCUBA diving certiﬁcate (PADI
Open Water Diver or equivalent) and should have div-
ing experience (diving depth: 8-12m). The ﬁeld team
will have 3 members and support from local authori-
ties. Experience in conducting behavioral observations
is considered an asset. Accommodation at the ﬁeld site
is remote and very basic, but beautifully located on
the shore of Lake Tanganyika. Fieldwork and diving is
physically demanding. All expenses for travel, accom-
modation and medical precaution are covered, but no
salary can be paid.
Candidates send a statement of scientiﬁc interests and
their CV to: markus.zoettl@iee.unibe.ch
Further information about the working group and
our institute: http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/ Contact:
Markus Z¨ ottl Institute of Ecology and Evolution Uni-
versity of Bern Wohlenstrasse 50A 3032 Hinterkappelen
Switzerland Tel: +41 31 631 9158”
Thank you very much, Markus
PhD candidate Institute of Ecology and Evolution Uni-
versity of Bern Wohlenstrasse 50A 3032 Hinterkappelen
Switzerland
Tel: +41 31 631 9158
“Z¨ ottl, Markus (IEE)” <markus.zoettl@iee.unibe.ch >
UCaliforniaSanDiego
DrosophilaEvolution
Project Scientist Position
Division of Biological Sciences at the University of Cali-
fornia, San Diego invites applications for a new Project
Scientist position with a strong preference for the rank
of Assistant Project Scientist. Applicants must have
a Ph.D. and several years of postdoctoral training in
Drosophila biology. The area of scholarship is open,
but we are interested in candidates with substantial
experience in genetics and/or evolution. The success-
ful candidate must have strong written and oral com-
munication skills as they will manage the Drosophila
Species Stock Center and be responsible for developing
genetic resources for the Center. Level of appointment
will be commensurate with qualiﬁcations and experi-
ence. Salary will be based upon University of California
pay scale.48 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Complete applications received by May 21, 2010 will
be assured of consideration. A complete application
will consist of a curriculum vita, including a full list
of publications, synopsis of professional goals, research
interests and three letters of recommendation (mailed
directly from referee) to:
Therese Markow Laboratory Search Committee
Attention: Dan Angeles, Mail Code 0346-A
Division of Biological Sciences
University of California, San Diego
9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0346
or dangeles@ucsd.edu with the Reference-candidate
name on the subject line.
UCSD is an equal opportunity-aﬃrmative action em-
ployer with a strong institutional commitment to the
achievement of diversity among its faculty and staﬀ,
and applicants are also invited to summarize their own
contributions to diversity.
Therese Ann Markow, Professor Amylin Chair in Life
Sciences Section of Ecology Behavior and Evolution
Division of Biological Sciences Muir Biology Building
2215 9500 Gilman Drive University of California at San
Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0116
Email: tmarkow at ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 246 0095
Laboratory: (858) 246 0402 FAX:(858) 534-7108
http://biology.ucsd.edu/labs/markow/ http:/-
/stockcenter.ucsd.edu Therese Markow
<tmarkow@ucsd.edu >
UCapeTown AvianEvolution
Opportunity to join the University of Cape Town
Position: Senior Lecturer - Percy FitzPatrick Institute
of African Ornithology, Department of Zoology (Ref.
2205).
We invite applications for the above permanent position
in the Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithol-
ogy, a world-renowned, national Centre of Excellence
in ornithological research with a strong emphasis on
postgraduate supervision.
The Institute is seeking a person with strengths in mod-
ern approaches to avian conservation or avian evolu-
tionary/behavioural ecology and with competence in
biostatistics. Applicants must have a PhD, with at leastﬁve years postdoctoral experience, a sound publication
record in ornithology and experience in postgraduate
supervision.
The successful candidate will be expected to work as
part of a research team, but to pursue his/her own re-
search, publish research ﬁndings in journals of high in-
ternational standing, recruit and supervise postgradu-
ate students, and attract research funding. The annual
remuneration package, including beneﬁts, is R433 117
(w.e.f. 1 July 2010: R446 898). Closing date: 30 June
2010
To view the full advertisements and application require-
ments, please visit www.uct.ac.za and click on Vacan-
cies.
UCT is committed to the pursuit of excellence, diver-
sity and redress. Our Employment Equity Policy is
available at http://hr.uct.ac.za/policies/ee.php .
Jacqueline.Bishop@uct.ac.za
UdelosAndes PopulationGenetics
Job announcement (versi´ on en espa˜ nol abajo):
*UNIVERSITY OF LOS ANDES: Population Geneti-
cist *
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sidad de los Andes in Bogot´ a, Colombia, seeks to ﬁll a
full time position in Population Genetics at the Assis-
tant or Associate Professor level. The successful appli-
cant will be based in the Institute of Population Genet-
ics and Phylogeography. The applicant must possess a
Ph.D., preferably with postdoctoral experience and a
successful track record of scientiﬁc productivity. Appli-
cants with additional expertise in molecular population
genetics, coalescent theory, genomics or computational
biology are especially encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate will be expected to teach an
undergraduate course in genetics, along with graduate
courses in his or her area of expertise, advise undergrad-
uate, masters and doctoral students in the Department
of Biological Sciences.
The Biological Sciences Department at the Universidad
de los Andes is among the top biology programs in Latin
America, and hosts 26 full-time professors. Internation-
ally recognized research programs include speciation
genetics, microbial genomics, phylogeography, bioin-
formatics, evolutionary ecology, human genetics, andJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 49
molecular systematics. The Institute houses a molec-
ular genetics laboratory and the Department oﬀers a
centralized DNA sequencing facility. The Biology fac-
ulty is young and growing rapidly, with ﬁve new hires
in the last year. For more information visit: http:/-
/cienciasbiologicas.uniandes.edu.co/ Interested candi-
dates should send (preferably as a single PDF) a cur-
riculum vitae, a 1-page description of her or his re-
search program, and a brief teaching statement describ-
ing experience and philosophy to the search committee
(Comit´ e de Contrataciones Profesorales) at the follow-
ing email address: ccontbio@uniandes.edu.co
Deadline for receipt of material is: July 31, 2010. Pre-
ferred candidates will then be asked to submit letters
of recommendation and copies of recent publications.
For additional information, please contact: Andrew J.
Crawford, Assistant Professor Instituto de Gen´ etica de
Poblaciones y Filogeograf´ ıa, Departamento de Cien-
cias Biol´ ogicas, Universidad de los Andes Email:
aj.crawford244@uniandes.edu.co Web: http://dna.ac
* * *UNIVERSIDAD DE LOS ANDES: **Gen´ etica
poblacional*
El Departamento de Ciencias Biol´ ogicas de la Univer-
sidad de los Andes en Bogot´ a, Colombia, busca can-
didatos para una plaza de profesor asistente / aso-
ciado en Gen´ etica de Poblaciones. El candidato se-
leccionado estar´ a vinculado al Instituto de Gen´ etica
y Filogeograf´ ıa. Los candidatos deben poseer t´ ıtulo
de doctorado, preferiblemente con experiencia postdoc-
toral, y contar con una amplia producci´ on cient´ ıﬁca.
Estamos especialmente interesados en candidatos con
conocimiento en gen´ etica molecular de poblaciones,
teor´ ıa de coalescencia, gen´ omica o biolog´ ıa computa-
cional.
El candidato seleccionado deber´ a impartir un curso de
pregrado en gen´ etica, conjuntamente con cursos de pos-
grado en su ´ area de especialidad y la supervisi´ on de es-
tudiantes de pregrado, maestr´ ıa y doctorado en el De-
partamento de Ciencias Biol´ ogicas.
El Departamento de Ciencias Biol´ ogicas de la Universi-
dad de los Andes ofrece uno de los mejores programas
en Biolog´ ıa y Microbiolog´ ıa de Am´ erica Latina y en ´ el
trabajan 26 profesores investigadores de tiempo com-
pleto. Cuenta con m´ ultiples programas de investigaci´ on
reconocidos a nivel internacional, como gen´ etica de la
especiaci´ on, gen´ omica microbiana, ﬁlogeograf´ ıa, bioin-
form´ atica, ecolog´ ıa evolutiva, gen´ etica humana y sis-
tem´ atica molecular. El Instituto cuenta con un labora-
torio de gen´ etica molecular y el Departamento dispone
de una unidad de secuenciaci´ on centralizada. El Depar-
tamento ofrece un ambiente joven, din´ amico y vibrante
con un crecimiento r´ apido. El ´ ultimo a˜ no se contrataroncinco nuevos investigadores. Para mayor informaci´ on,
visite: http://cienciasbiologicas.uniandes.edu.co/ Los
candidatos interesados deben enviar un curriculum vi-
tae, una descripci´ on de su l´ ınea de investigaci´ on (una
p´ agina), y una declaraci´ on breve de su experiencia y
ﬁlosof´ ıa docente (preferiblemente en un solo documento
PDF) al Comit´ e de Contrataciones Profesorales por el
siguiente correo electr´ onico: ccontbio@uniandes.edu.co
La fecha l´ ımite para la entrega de documentos es el
31 de julio de 2010. A los candidatos seleccionados se
les solicitar´ an cartas de recomendaci´ on y copias de sus
publicaciones recientes.
Si necesita informaci´ on adicional, por favor no dude en
contactar a: Andrew J. Crawford, Profesor Asistente
Instituto de Gen´ etica de Poblaciones y Filogeograf´ ıa,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UKansasLawrence ResTech
HydrozoanSystematics
Research Assistant/Technician: Hydrozoan systemat-
ics and evolutionary development A staﬀ research as-
sistant position in the ﬁelds of systematics and evolu-
tionary development is available in the Cartwright lab
(http://www.people.ku.edu/˜pcart/index.html ) in the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the
University of Kansas in Lawrence, KS. This lab inves-
tigates the evolution of the marine invertebrate group,
Hydrozoa, by investigating their phylogenetic relation-
ships and comparative development. The research as-
sistant will directly contribute to both lab management
and the lab research program. The position is for 1-
2 years, available immediately but start date is nego-
tiable. Salary range $30,000–$35,000/year, depending
on experience.
Responsibilities include:
Assisting in the daily operation of the lab including
ordering supplies and preparation of reagents. (25%)
Supervising undergraduate employees. (10%) Main-
taining aquaria with live cultures of hydrozoans. (10%)
Molecular biology laboratory procedures: DNA and
RNA extraction, PCR, RT-PCR, cloning, library con-
struction, in-situ hybridization. (50%) Involvement in50 EvolDir June 1, 2010
the lab research program by working as a team member
and contributing to the intellectual environment. (5
Required qualiﬁcations:
A Bachelors degree in biological sciences or closely re-
lated ﬁeld from an accredited 4-year institution. 1 year
of professional experience in molecular lab research.
Molecular laboratory experience outside of classroom
laboratories, such as lab internships, independent un-
dergraduate research, or graduate work in a lab, may be
substituted for professional experience. Ability to work
independently, and with attention to lab protocols, de-
tail and organizational requirements as demonstrated
by professional experience or independent student re-
search as described in letter of application. Enthusiasm
for research in systematics, evolutionary development
or invertebrate biology as demonstrated through pro-
fessional or independent laboratory experience, or class
work and described in letter of application. Preferred
qualiﬁcations: Professional laboratory research expe-
rience in molecular phylogenetics and/or evolutionary
development. Lab, museum collection, or ﬁeld experi-
ence in invertebrate biology. Familiarity with bioinfor-
matics and a computer programming language such as
PERL or Python.
For complete position description and applica-
tion instructions visit https://jobs.ku.edu, position
#00208310. Questions can be directed to Dr. Paulyn
Carwright email: pcart@ku.edu Review begins 5/15/10
EOAA employer
pcart@ku.edu
UKansas ResTech
DrosophilaVariation
An NIH-funded Research Technician position is avail-
able in Stuart Macdonald’s lab in the Department of
Molecular Biosciences at the University of Kansas. The
Macdonald lab explores the genetic basis of complex
phenotypic variation within and between species using
Drosophila as a model system. We seek an enthusi-
astic individual to supervise and carry out large-scale
genetics/genomics projects, and to oversee various lab
activities. The responsibilities of the technician will in-
clude maintaining and using a large panel of Drosophila
strains, and helping with quantitative genetic experi-
ments. The successful candidate should be motivated,
organized, and careful, and should have excellent oraland written communication skills. Salary will be com-
mensurate with experience and will include beneﬁts.
Required qualiﬁcations are a Bachelors degree in bi-
ology or a related ﬁeld, and demonstrable experience
conducting research in a (broadly- deﬁned) genetics or
molecular biology laboratory. Preference will be given
to candidates with signiﬁcant experience in the labora-
tory (including troubleshooting and optimizing proto-
cols). Prior experience with Drosophila is not essential,
but would be an asset.
The position is open and review of applications will be-
gin on May 21 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Informal inquires are welcome and can be directed to
Stuart Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu). To apply, complete
an online application at https://jobs.ku.edu (position
number 00206283). Attach a cover letter (describing
your interest in the position and any relevant exper-
tise), a full CV, and complete contact information for
3 referees. EO/AA Employer.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 1030 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oﬃce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-
5321 email: sjmac@ku.edu web: http://web.ku.edu/-
sjmac/ sjmac@ku.edu
ULouvian TeachingAssistant
Dear all,
below is an oﬀer for a teaching position oﬀered in Bel-
gium (Universite catholique de Louvain). As knowledge
of French is a prerequisite for this position, the rest of
the message is in French. My apologies for those who
are therefore not concerned. Nicolas
L’universit´ e catholique de Louvain annonce la vacance
d’un poste d’assistant en biologie quantitative / con-
servation de la biodiversite. Ce poste, d’une duree de 6
ans, vise a la realisation d’une these de doctorat tout en
assurant +-250h d’enseignement de travaux partiques
par an.
Notre equipe de recherche “Quantitative Conservation
Biology” mene des recherches en dynamique et via-
bilite des (meta)populations dans un cadre de con-
servation de la biodiversite. Notre site web ( http://-
www.uclouvain.be/quant-cons-biol ) detaille nos projets
de recherche actuels.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 51
Le detail du poste (ref 00001328) est disponible
ici: http://wwwsapsme.sipr.ucl.ac.be/HR/-
RFC?sap-language=3DF& FUNCTION=-
3DZ WWW HRDISPLAY POS DESCRIPT&POSITION=
00001328&FACULTE=SC Les candidatures doivent
etre soumises au plus tard pour le 28 mai: http://-
www.uclouvain.be/11617 Si les aspects quantitatifs
de l’ecologie et de la conservation de la biodiversite
vous attirent, si realiser une these de doctorat dans
notre equipe de recherche tout en assurant une activite
d’enseignement vous interesse, prenez contact des que
possible avec moi.
Prof. Nicolas Schtickzelle Research Associate (FNRS)
& Lecturer Head of Quantitative Conservation Biology
group
Universite catholique de Louvain Earth and Life In-
stitute Biodiversity Research Centre Croix du Sud 4
B-1348 Louvain-la-Neuve Belgium
phone : +32 10 47 20 52 fax : +32 10 47 34 90 oﬃce:
building Carnoy, room C.157
nicolas.schtickzelle@uclouvain.be http://-
www.uclouvain.be/quant-cons-biol nico-
las.schtickzelle@uclouvain.be
USDA Montana
EvolutionInvasivePlants
Interdisciplinary: Research Evolutionist/Entomologist,
GS-0408/0414-12/13
Salary Range of $68,809.00 - 106,369.00 per year
The United States Department of Agriculture, Agri-
cultural Research Service, Northern Plains Agricultural
Research Laboratory, Pest Management Research Unit
in Sidney, Montana is seeking a permanent full-time
Research Ecologist/ Entomologist as a lead investiga-
tor in classical biological control of invasive plants of
the Northern Great Plains. The research focuses on
plant and insect ecology; plant-herbivore interactions;
characterization of ecological factors aﬀecting biolog-
ical control agents (insects or other arthropods) and
invasive weeds; host-speciﬁcity and eﬃcacy studies of
potential biological control agents; non-target eﬀects
of biocontrol on ecological communities; post-release
eﬃcacy studies; and long-term monitoring. For de-
tails and to apply, see http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/
.Reference Job Announcement Number —-ARS-X10W-
0124A. Applications must be postmarked by May 28,2010. U.S. citizenship is required. This announcement
has been amended to extend the closing date to May
28, 2010. USDA/ARS is an equal opportunity employer
and provider.
“Gaskin, John” <John.Gaskin@ARS.USDA.GOV >
UTexas ResTech FishHostParasite
Coevolution
Dear Brian, While the ideal candidate for my adver-
tised position would have experience with parasitology,
this is not a requirement. Furthermore, the research
program is very much an evolutionary project and my
lab is an evolutionary ecology lab. Consequently, I
view evolutionary biologists as my focal audience for
this job advertisement. I would therefore appreciate it
if you would post the following (revised) job descrip-
tion with the subject line: Job: Research Technician:
host-parasite coevolution in ﬁsh, University of Texas /
HHMI
Position Title: Research Technician 1
Employer: Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Where: Section of Integrative Biology, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
Classiﬁcation: Full-time
Starting Salary: $30,000 to $35,000 annually depending
on qualiﬁcations, plus beneﬁts.
Start date: Earliest possible start date is May 15 2010,
later start dates are possible.
Duration: Renewable annually depending on perfor-
mance, with an expected duration of three years.
Job summary:
The Bolnick lab in the Section of Integrative Biology at
the University of Texas at Austin, is seeking a highly
motivated research technician to assist with a study of
geographic mosaic coevolution between ﬁsh and their
macroparasites. Research will focus on documenting
geographic variation in parasite communities of the
threespine stickleback and corresponding variation in
stickleback immunogenetics. For more information on
the Bolnick lab, visit:
https://webspace.utexas.edu/dib73/Bolnicklab/-
Bolnicklab.html The research associate will be an
employee of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.52 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Responsibilities will include:
Quantifying parasite incidence and identity in wild-
caught ﬁsh specimens, measurements of ﬁsh morphol-
ogy and diet, DNA extraction, PCR, and next-gen se-
quencing. Training will be provided as needed. The
technician will have the opportunity to assist with peri-
odic ﬁeld work on Vancouver Island, Canada, to obtain
specimens. The technician may also assist with daily
management of the laboratory, including purchasing,
equipment maintenance, database management, and
animal care.
Minimum qualiﬁcations:
A Bachelor’s degree in biology or equivalent ﬁeld. A
strong work ethic, an ability to work independently and
meticulously, and good organizational skills.
Preferred qualiﬁcations:
Experience with one or more of the following: ﬁsh par-
asitology, morphometrics, immunology, DNA sequenc-
ing, and/or population genetic analyses of DNA se-
quence data. Ideal candidates would have a Masters
degree in an appropriate subﬁeld of biology, including
but not limited to evolution, ecology, immunology, par-
asitology, ichthyology, molecular genetics, or bioinfor-
matics. Experience with ﬁeld research is also a plus.
To apply:
Applications will be reviewed as they are received, and
the position will remain open until ﬁlled. The applica-
tion should include:
1) a letter of application with a description of past re-
search experience and education (degree, institution,
GPA, courses taken)
2) a curriculum vitae
3) the names of three references
The application may be sent via email as a pdf ﬁle (pre-
ferred) or word ﬁle to:
danbolnick@mail.utexas.edu
Or, applications may be sent via mail to:
Dr. Daniel Bolnick
Section of Integrative Biology
One University Station C0930
University of Texas at Austin
Austin TX 78712, USA
HHMI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Early Career Scientist Howard Hughes Medical Insti-tute
Associate Professor Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0930 University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@mail.utexas.edu https://webspace.utexas.edu/-
dib73/TheBolnickLab/Home.html Dan Bolnick
<danbolnick@mail.utexas.edu >
UZurich ResAssist Bioinformatician
Research assistant (Computer scien-
tist/bioinformatician) - University of Z¨ urich
A research assistant position is available for a computer
scientist/bioinformatician at the University of Z¨ urich.
We are interested in bacterial-plasmid coevolution, and
approach this through mathematical and computa-
tional modelling, as well as genome-wide analyses to
investigate the role of horizontal gene transfer in bacte-
rial evolution. The successful candidate will be involved
in analysing bacterial sequence data and/or developing
complex simulations of bacterial evolution. Involve-
ment in the respective project(s) will depend on the
skills and interests of the successful candidate.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual with
a strong computational background. The candidate
should have excellent programming skills and a back-
ground in computer science, bioinformatics, statistics
or related disciplines and have a diploma/MSc degree.
The successful applicant will be supervised by Dr
Daniel Rankin ( http://www.socialgenes.org/people/-
rankin.html ), a theoretical evolutionary biologist inter-
ested in a wide range of topics, from social evolution
to the link between evolution and ecology. The posi-
tion will be based in the Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics Group, led by Professor Andreas Wag-
ner ( http://www.bioc.uzh.ch/wagner/ ). The group is
very international and consists of a very diverse range
of individuals who work on a wide range of interesting
evolutionary topics.
The candidate should have a diploma/MSc degree and
have excellent programming skills and a background in
computer science, bioinformatics, biology, statistics or
related disciplines. Previous research experience, and
willingness to gain some experience in evolutionary bi-
ology will be seen as an advantage. The successful can-
didate will be encouraged to be involved in the publi-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 53
cation process, and those that want to pursue a PhD
will be encouraged to apply for their own funding.
Zurich is located less than one hour from the Alps, and
is a small but vibrant city that is regarded to have one
of the best standards of living in the world. There is
a large international community and is well connected
to all major European cities. The working language of
the group is English, and knowledge German is very
helpful but not necessary.
To apply, please send an eˆ amail with the applicant’s CV
and cover letter (explaining the experience and motiva-
tion for applying for the job), along with the contact
details of at least 2 potential referees, in a single pdf ﬁle
to d.rankin@access.uzh.ch. Please mention ˆ aResearch
assistant position“ in the subject of the eˆ amail.
Deadline for applications is Friday 21st May 2010. The
position, funded by the Swiss NSF, is available to start
immediately and will be between 12 and 18 months.
Further information: Dr Daniel Rankin
(http://www.socialgenes.org/ ) Eˆ amail:
d.rankin@access.uzh.ch, Tel: +41 44 63 56143
d.rankin@socialgenes.org
WoodsHole ResAssist
MarineMicrobeDiversity
Position Title: Research Assistant II/III V Marine Mi-
crobes
Description: The Marine Biological Laboratory in
Woods Hole, MA is seeking applicants for a full-time
Research Assistant position with the Josephine Bay
Paul Center. The successful applicant will contribute
to the project, which will explore diversity of marine
microbes and the inﬂuence of changing chemical envi-
ronments on microbial population structures.
Duties: Duties include but are not limited to the prepa-
ration and massively-high throughput pyrosequencing
of tag libraries from marine microbial populations.
Education and Experience: Bachelors or Masters de-
gree with training in molecular biology and bioinfor-
matics. Must have several years of laboratory experi-
ence. Candidate is expected to be familiar with modern
nucleic acid sequencing and analysis technologies, in-
cluding library construction and operation of capillary
sequencers and robotics platforms.Special Instructions to Applicants:
Required Applicant Documents -Resume/CV -Cover
Letter -References (3)
Please submit three items: (i) a cover letter describ-
ing your research goals and your speciﬁc motivation to
join our lab, (ii) a CV, and (iii) contact information
for three references, including your Ph.D. supervisor
by completing an application using the MBL website:
http://www.mbl.edu/hr/employment.html .
Posting Number: 0000312
Deadline: Until a suitable candidate is found.
The MBL is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action
Employer/Non- smoking workplace.
“Katie K. Newhall” <knewhall@mbl.edu >
YaleU 2yearLectureship
SystematicBotany
Two-Year Systematic Botany Lecturer Position Depart-
ment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Yale Univer-
sity
A full-time, nine-month lecturer position in the Yale
University Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Bi-
ology is available for a Ph.D. with expertise in system-
atic botany. Position is available for academic years
2010-11 and 2011-12.
Duties will include: - in Spring semester, teaching an
undergraduate biology major’s course in Plant Diver-
sity and Evolution, a concurrrent undergraduate Lab
in Plant Diversity and Evolution. - in Fall semester,
teaching a comprehensive undergraduate course on the
Diversity of Life for majors and nonmajors, and an
undergraduate biology seminar on a topic to be cho-
sen. - supervising or advising undergraduate research
projects.
The required qualiﬁcations are: - a Ph.D. in biol-
ogy with research experience in plant phylogenetics,
anatomy, or diversity. - previous college teaching expe-
rience with demonstrable eﬀectiveness - broad familiar-
ity with organismal diversity - professional competence
in systematic botany
The primary responsibilities of the position are those
involved in the teaching mission. Applicants with ac-
tive research interests in botanical or fungal systemat-
ics may be oﬀered the opportunity to join the research54 EvolDir June 1, 2010
group of Professor Michael Donoghue, where they may
be eligible to earn an additional 3 months of summer
salary. Any such arrangement is secondary to the pri-
mary teaching obligations.
Salary and beneﬁts will be for a full-time, nine-month
lecturer ($52,000).
Applicants please send a CV, names of three refer-
ences, statement of teaching experience, statement of
research experience and goals to: Ms. Marcia Ry-
naski (marcia.rynaksi@yale.edu), Department of Ecol-ogy and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University, P. O.
Box 208106, New Haven, CT 06520; phone: (203) 432-
3891.
Applications will be accepted until position is ﬁlled.
Richard O. Prum William Robertson Coe Professor of
Ornithology Chair, Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology
phone- (203) 432-9423 website- http://www.yale.edu/-
eeb/prum/ Richard Prum <richard.prum@yale.edu >
Other
454 sequencing facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Alignment format conversions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Ancient DNA lab ﬁlm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Anemone samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Atelerix samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
BBSRC and NERC funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
BroodParasiticBirds Website . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Convert nucleotide MSA into protein alignment . . . 57
DalhousieU VolPosition PlantReproduction . . . . . . . . 57
Dsimulans samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Evolution 3Dvideos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Evolution Body Shape . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Evolution Textbook Recommendations answers . . . . 58
ExtractingDNA from CambialTissue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
GeneMapper availability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Invasive species survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Knome sequencing program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
MEDUSA error in R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
MEDUSA error in R answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61Mendels manuscript . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
NESCent CallCourseProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Next Generation InHouse Computing 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Nucleotide to protein translations answers . . . . . . . . . 63
Outsource ampliﬁcation sequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Outsource ampliﬁcation sequencing answers . . . . . . . 64
Problems with SAMOVA software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Samples to the UK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ShortCourses YouWouldLike . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ShortCourses YouWouldLike 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Software CANGS for 454 data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Software Phobos update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Software TranslatorX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
SouthAfrica Volunteers MouseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 67
StazioneZoologica Italy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Tajikistan collaboration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Warbler Paternity data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Webserver GrassPortal grassPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . 69
454 sequencing facilities
Hello all,
I am interested in sequencing the mitochondrial genome
(454) for a number of species and am looking for a com-
pany in Canada that can do this. The McGill/GenomeCanada group was recommended but when I contacted
them they indicated that they were not taking any
new projects. Are there any other Canadian (or fur-
ther abroad) institutions or companies that oﬀer 454
sequencing - and could be recommended. Thanks
Stephen
Stephen D. Petersen Visiting Fellow, Fisheries &
Oceans Canada 501 University Crescent Winnipeg,
Manitoba, R3T 2N6June 1, 2010 EvolDir 55
Stephen Petersen <alertstephen@gmail.com >
Alignment format conversions
Dear colleagues,
We have developed a open web-based tool (ALTER)
to transform between diﬀerent alignment formats. The
originality of ALTER lies in the fact that it focuses
on the speciﬁcations of popular programs rather than
on conversion among canonical formats, which often
encompass diﬀerent variations under the same name.
ALTER is available at:
http://sing.ei.uvigo.es/ALTER/ Further detaisl are
explained in: Glez-Pe˜ na D, G´ omez-Blanco D, Reboiro-
Jato M, Fdez-Riverola F, Posada D. 2010. ALTER:
program-oriented conversion of DNA and protein align-
ments. Nucleic Acids Research (Web server issue): 1-5
http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkq321 Hope ALTER
is useful for some of you. Suggestions are welcome (see
the feedback button at the web site). Best,
D
– David Posada Facultad de Biolog´ ıa Campus Univer-
sitario 36310 Vigo Spain
Phone: +34 986 812038 Cell: +34 647 343300 Fax:
+34 986 812556 Email: dposada@uvigo.es Web: dar-
win.uvigo.es
dposada@uvigo.es
Ancient DNA lab ﬁlm
Dear evoldir community,
for a non-proﬁt, internet based, ﬁlm project about evo-
lutionary biology, I am looking for some footage of an
ancient DNA clean lab. On my wish list are someone
cutting a piece of bone, powderizing the bone and do-
ing some wet lab things that look like a pcr. All of this,
of course, while wearing the white suits that are used
in clean labs.
Does anyone have such material? Or, could someone
help me to get the material?It is most important that the material can be used un-
der a creative commons license. The movie will be pub-
lished on the internet and especially teachers and mu-
seums will be allowed to download the movie and use
it however they want. I could pay for the material.
The editor of the movie is based in London, so if you
are in or near London, that may make things easier,
because I could send someone with a camera to your
lab. The footage doesn’t need to come from inside a
real clean lab, as long as it really looks like one!
For the other movies of this project, see http://-
www.evolution-of-life.com We now have 6 movies on-
line, in German, French and English.
Best wishes & many thanks, Pleuni Pennings
–
Pleuni S. Pennings, PhD
University of Munich (LMU) from June 15th,
2010:Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard,
Boston Mail: pleuni@dds.nl My website: http:/-
/www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/Pleuni Pennings My movie
project: http://www.evolution-of-life.com Pleuni Pen-
nings<pennings@lmu.de >
Anemone samples
Hello,
I am studying the phylogeogoraphy of Anemone mul-
tiﬁda (cut leaf anemone), a ﬂowering plant native to
North America and Chile. I am currently studying in
Alberta, and it would be fantastic to get specimens
from places such as: Colorado, Montana, Wyoming,
Utah, Idaho, North and South Dakota, Manitoba,
Saskatchewan, Northwest Territories, Yukon, BC and
Quebec. Please let me know if you would be willing to
stuﬀ some leaves in a bag with silica gel – we will gladly
cover any costs.
Thanks!
Jamie McEwen
– Jamie McEwen, BSc Dept. of Biology, Uni-
versity of Calgary jrmcewen@ucalgary.ca (403) 220-
7907 https://webdisk.ucalgary.ca/ ˜ jrmcewen/web/-
index.html jamie.r.mcewen@gmail.com56 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Atelerix samples
I am a PhD student studying African hedgehogs. I am
looking for contacts in order to obtain geo-referenced
tissue samples of Somali and South African hedgehogs
(Atelerix sclateri and A. frontalis, respectively; links to
distribution maps from IUCN can be found below) as
well as North African hedgehog (A. algirus) from the
Balearic Islands. If anyone travels to or works in these
regions or has contacts who do, I would be extremely
grateful to receive your help; tissue samples can easily
be collected from roadkill. I would also be happy to
receive samples of other hedgehogs from Africa as well
(A. algirus, A. albiventris, Paraechinus aethiopicus).
Distribution maps A. frontalis: http://-
www.iucnredlist.org/apps/redlist/details/2274/0/-
rangemap A. sclateri: http://www.iucnredlist.org/-
apps/redlist/details/2275/0/rangemap Please contact
me for more information or with any possible leads.
Many thanks for your help,
Dianna Steiner
Doctoral Student University of Porto, Portugal/CIBIO
(Research Centre of Biodiversity and Genetic Re-
sources/Centro de Investiga¸ c˜ ao em Biodiversidade e
Recursos Gen´ eticos)
http://cibio.up.pt Campus Agr´ ario de Vair˜ ao R. Padre
Armando Quintas 4485-661 Vair˜ ao, Portugal
e-mail: dianna.steiner@mail.icav.up.pt
tel: +351 25 266 0411 mobile: +351 91 258 9262
Dianna Steiner <dianna.steiner@mail.icav.up.pt >
BBSRC and NERC funding
This will only be of interest to those applying for re-
search funds in the UK. It is worth knowing that it is
now the policy, and might have been for sometime, not
to allow grants rejected by the BBSRC, to be submit-
ted to NERC, unless they are substantially changed. I
have just had a grant pulled at the 11th hour because
of this ruling.Adam Eyre-Walker
a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk
BroodParasiticBirds Website
We would like to announce www.indigobirds.com, a
website devoted to collecting and disseminating in-
formation about the brood parasitic indigobirds (see
“Background” below). This multimedia website sum-
marizes research on these fascinating birds, along with
locality records, range maps, pictures, and song record-
ings. One of the primary objectives of the site is to in-
crease knowledge about these birds by collecting notes,
photographs, and especially recordings of indigobird
songs from the public, students, birders, and both am-
ateur and professional ornithologists.
Because indigobird species are morphologically similar
and diﬃcult to identify in the ﬁeld, the distributions of
these birds are poorly known. Indigobird males, how-
ever, convey critical information in their songs; by mim-
icking their host species, males provide an unambigu-
ous indication of the species that raised them. Thus, we
are particularly interested in gathering geo-referenced
sound or video recordings of indigobirds throughout
Africa. If you have or would like to collect indigo-
bird recordings, please email us at indigos@bu.edu.
We will do our best to identify the indigobird species
you’ve recorded and use the information to improve our
database of indigobird distributions on the website.
We hope that the website will be a reference for biolo-
gists, students, and bird enthusiasts, and invite sugges-
tions on how we can improve its content.
Regards,
Jeﬀrey DaCosta Michael Sorenson Boston University
www.indigobirds.com indigos@bu.edu
Background: Indigobirds (10 of 19 species in the genus
Vidua) are African parasitic ﬁnches that reproduce only
by laying their eggs in the nests of other species, mainly
ﬁreﬁnches (genus Lagonosticta). Most indigobirds par-
asitize a single host species, which is evidenced in two
remarkable traits. First, young indigobirds mimic the
species-speciﬁc and elaborate mouth patterns of their
respective hosts. Second, adult male indigobirds in-
clude songs of their host species in their own repertoire.
Experiments with captive birds have demonstrated that
this mimicry of host song results from a behavioral im-
printing process in which both male and female indigo-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 57
birds learn the songs of the host species. As a result in-
dividuals mainly mate with other individuals that have
been reared by the same host species, and females par-
asitize nests belonging to the same species that raised
them. This remarkable social behavior results in the co-
hesion of indigobird species but also provides a mech-
anism for rapid sympatric speciation (i.e., speciation
without geographic isolation). sympatric speciation
(i.e., speciation without geographic isolation).
Convert nucleotide MSA into
protein alignment
Dear colleagues,
Does anyone know a program that can translate a full
multiple sequence nucleotide alignment directly into the
(aligned) amino acid sequences without doing it se-
quence by sequence?
It would be an enormous time saver!
Best wishes,
Birgit
NOTE NEW PHONE NO!
Birgit Meldal, Ph.D. Division of Transfusion Medicine
Department of Haematology University of Cambridge
NHS Blood & Transplant, Cambridge Centre Long
Road Cambridge CB2 0PT U.K.
+44 1223 588049 bhmm2@cam.ac.uk
DalhousieU VolPosition
PlantReproduction
Hello,
I am a phd student at Dalhousie University. I am seek-
ing volunteer(s) to help with a study of the reproductive
biology of a ﬂowering plant. The study will be con-
ducted in the eastern section of Algonquin Park (On-
tario) this summer. The position involves camping from
Mon-Fri in the eastern section of Algonquin park from
July 15-Oct. Volunteers are expected to commit to a
minimum of 5 days during this period. Volunteers are
welcome to help out for longer periods of time!! Trans-portation from Ottawa to the ﬁeld site and return will
be provided. Food and camping equipment can also be
provided.
Please email maggie at mbartkow@dal.ca for more in-
formation.
Cheers, Maggie
– Magdalena Bartkowska, M.Sc. Biology Department
Dalhousie University phone:494-8005
mbartkow@dal.ca
Dsimulans samples
we are starting a project on Drosophila simulans pop-
ulation genomics. We are interested in knowning
whether anybody in the community has and is willing
to share D.simulans populations. We are speciﬁcally
interested in recently caught Drosophila simulans from
speciﬁc populations (severallines collected in the same
population).
Thanks a lot!
Josefa
Josefa Gonzalez Life Science Research Associate De-
partment of Biology 371 Serra St Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305-5020 http://www.stanford.edu/-
˜jgonzalp (650) 736 2249
“jgonzalp@stanford.edu” <jgonzalp@stanford.edu >
Evolution 3Dvideos
Hello everyone,
I disturb you, just to comment that, with the aim of
spreading in an “extra-scientiﬁc” area, some aspects of
the work we have done in our lab of Ecology and evo-
lution (University of Vigo), we have conducting several
informative 3D video. If anyone is interested, can see
the video on the web:
http://webs.uvigo.es/plantecology/-
divulgacion.en.html If anyone is interested, can
also download high deﬁnition version freely accessing
Youtube:58 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Lizards as seed dispersers in island ecosys-
tems: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
zPsNAaL8K68&feature=channel Biological Invasions
and Zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha): http://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=biUpmQ9fz7g&feature=-
channel I hope you enjoy it.
Luis Navarro
–
Luis Navarro phone 1: (+34) 986 812619 Depto. Bi-
ologia Vegetal phone 2: (+34) 647 343097 Facul-
tad de Ciencias fax: (+34) 986 812556 As Lagoas-
Marcosende email: lnavarro@uvigo.es Universidad de
Vigo http://webs.uvigo.es/lnavarro 36200-Vigo http:/-
/webs.uvigo.es/plantecology Spain
Luis Navarro <lnavarro@uvigo.es >
Evolution Body Shape
Dear colleagues
We have recently launched a global study on the evolu-
tion of male and female body shape at www (dot) body-
lab (dot) biz. This is an exciting project that makes use
of new developments in computer generated imagery to
independently manipulate over twenty diﬀerent body
measurements. We recognise that there may be much
more to human attractiveness than a small number of
measures can capture, and we are trying to understand
how all the traits that make up a body combine to in-
ﬂuence attractiveness.
Studying this many traits requires samples of thousands
of raters, and hence we launched bodyLab (dot) biz - a
web platform for our study. Starting in April 2010 with
populations of 120 male and 120 female models based
on measurements of real people, we aim to “breed” from
the most attractive individuals, using the power of nat-
ural selection to shape our virtual population of human
bodies.
A secondary aim of our project is to demonstrate the
power of natural selection and the relevance of evo-
lutionary biology to the general public - worldwide.
We provide participants with feedback on their rating
statistics, alert users to updates to our male and female
populations, and provide information on the progress
of our study via FaceBook and Twitter. Our interac-
tive site will encourage lasting interest from our par-
ticipants and fellow researchers, and we invite otherresearch groups who wish to propose collaborations or
who can help us enhance the experience for visitors to
bodyLab.
Please visit our site, rate the bodies, and spread the
word to your friends and colleagues. Many thanks,
Rob Brooks www.eerc.unsw.edu.au Participate in our
new global study on the evolution of attractiveness
www (dot) bodylab (dot) biz
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
Evolution Textbook
Recommendations answers
Hi, All:
About two months ago I solicited recommendations on
textbooks in evolutionary biology that might ﬁt a niche
somewhere intermediate to the breadth and detail of
Futuyma’s ’Evolution, 2nd edn.’ and considerably more
elementary texts like Kardong’s “An Introduction to
Biological Evolution”. My apologies for the delay in
posting the promised summary - the response was a bit
greater than I’d anticipated (a good problem to have)
and, quite frankly, teaching duties overwhelmed me un-
til the semester came to a merciful end.
Great thanks to all those who took the time to pro-
vide feedback, all quite useful. I have organized the
responses below save for one which will not be posted
as per the respondent’s request. Freeman and Herron’s
“Evolutionary Analysis” was the overwhelming favorite
with ~30 favorable nods. Of the other texts given more
than one positive review - Sterns&Hoekstra’s “Evolu-
tion: An Introduction”, Ridley’s “Evolution, 3rd edn”,
and Zimmer’s “The Tangled Bank” - Stearns & Hoek-
stra received the most at 6 or 7. I think reading the
invidual comments is worthwhile - many (although cer-
tainly not all) provide more speciﬁc details as to why
they like a particular text.
I also received a pdf of a review of the Zimmer book.
I do not know if the EvolDir can handle attachments
but I will try to send it as an attachment in a separate
message.
I have organized all of the rather lengthy set of re-
sponses below with the following organization [Note:
the book title in the ﬁrst 1 or 2 posts favoring that
text is bolded]: My original post; A few that are more
general and mention several possibilities without argu-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 59
ing in favor of any of them (including a link to a site
that lists more possibilities than are mentioned here);
Comments in favor of Freeman & Herron; Comments
in favor of Stearns & Hoekstra; Comments in favor of
Zimmer; Comments in favor of Ridley; Comments on
miscellaneous other texts.
I have been using Futuyma to teach my Evolutionary
Biology course thus far. Personally, I like the breadth
of topics in Futuyma but I have found that it is a little
too advanced for my students and I skip 1/3 or more
of the sections for that reason. All of the other books
I’ve looked at - example: Kardong’s “Introduction to
Biological Evolution” is too basic for what I would like
to do. Ideally, I’d like to ﬁnd something intermediate
between Futuyma and one of these ultra-basic texts -
with a somewhat smaller price tag as well.
The available choices are summarized here:
http://www.evolverzone.com/?tag=books-textbooks
Plus, you might consider Carl Zimmer’s The Tangled
Bank, which is not as basic as Kardong’s book.
I’ve taught evolution at the undergrad and grad levels
now for 17 years and have tried multiple textbooks. I
agree that Kardong and several others (including the
nicely produced new textbook by Carl Zimmer) are too
basic for a majors course at a 4-year undergrad college.
I think the best ones are Futuyma, Ridley, Strickberger,
Freeman & Herron, and the interesting new textbook
from Cold Spring Harbor by Barton et al.
*****
I have taught using Futuyma, Ridley and Freeman &
Herron. I have not yet tried using Strickberger nor Bar-
ton et al. The one that worked best with my particular
course was Futuyma. This is because I like to use the
textbook as a “reference” for the course. I want the
students to know that the textbook does not run the
course–I do. The textbook is ONE of the resources in
the course. A good reference text will provide more
depth and diﬀerent examples than what I provide in
class. Furthermore, such a textbook should provide ci-
tations to the actual literature, so that students can use
the textbook as a springboard for developing their own
library research projects. In this respect, Futuyma’s
text is the best.
*****
I agree that Futuyma’s textbook is dense, but it is very
well-organized, well-written, focuses on the main mech-
anisms, and provides references. It would be great if
publishers also provided cool things like simulators (e.g.
for testing students’ hypotheses about population ge-
netics), good problem sets, etc. I think most publishersfocus too much on making the textbook the center of
the course. But it’s only one tool in the arsenal.
(That said, I might try Barton et al. next year, just for
variety...)
*****
I am in the same boat. Using Futuyma and skipping a
little less than 1/3. Several people have suggested Free-
man’s Evolutionary Analysis. I have been tempted by
the Hoekstra and Stearns book, because of its emphasis
on theory. I would like to hear what you ﬁnd out.
*****
Scott Freeman’s book is pretty standard these days, I
think you’d ﬁnd
it meets your criteria. I was a graduate evolutionary
biology student
and I found it useful and informative, and not too basic.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
ExtractingDNA from CambialTissue
Hi,
I’m seeking advice on extracting DNA from cambial
tissue for microsatellite analysis. Please shoot me an
e-mail (shmi.narayan at gmail dot com) if you would
be willing to share expertise or suggest relevant papers.
Thanks!
Lakshmi Narayan Graduate Student UC Berkeley
shmi.narayan@gmail.com
GeneMapper availability
Dear all,
Does anyone know if there is somewhere where one can
purchase the GeneMapper software for a reasonable60 EvolDir June 1, 2010
price? Applied Biosystems is selling it (GeneMapper
v4.1 full) for $1,000 dlls !!!
Peak Scanner is no longer freely available, and its per-
formance is, anyhow, of lower quality compared to Gen-
eMapper.
I appreciate any suggestions, Ella
Ella V´ azquez Dom´ ınguez Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa, UNAM
Ap. Postal 70-275, Ciudad Universitaria M´ exico DF
04510 M´ exico Tel +52 55 5622 9015
ella@miranda.ecologia.unam.mx
Invasive species survey
Dear Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention
to the world’s largest collaborative project on invasive
species. The Global Garlic Mustard Field Survey is
just entering its second ﬁeld season and we already have
demographic data and seed collections from 65 popu-
lations – more than any published study on invasive
species. This year we are hoping to double that num-
ber and we are particularly keen to have more North
American contributors.
The project is an international collaboration aimed at
obtaining much-needed data on the abundance and dis-
tribution of /Alliaria petiolata/ (Garlic Mustard). It
involves a very basic sampling protocol that standard-
izes sampling across sites, making it ideal for incorpo-
ration into ﬁeld courses, nature surveys, and long-term
monitoring and management eﬀorts. The estimated du-
ration of sampling for a team of two people is 2-4 hours
per population.
For academics who substantially contribute to this
endeavor, we anticipate the possibility of author-
ship on manuscripts resulting from the work. Our
plan for the future includes development of teach-
ing modules and expanding to similar surveys for
other key invasive species. The sampling protocol
and additional information are available at the fol-
lowing website: www.GarlicMustard.org <http://-
www.garlicmustard.org/ >. Please contact us directly
if would like to participate or if you have any questions
or concerns.
Dr. Robert Colautti Biology Depart-
ment Duke University rob.colautti@duke.edu
<mailto:rob.colautti@duke.edu >
Dr. Oliver Bossdorf Biology DepartmentUniversity of Bern bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch
<mailto:bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch >
Dr. Steven Franks Biology Department
Fordham University franks@fordham.edu
<mailto:franks@fordham.edu >
rob.colautti@duke.edu
Knome sequencing program
I wanted to pass along Knome’s announcement that
we’re giving away sequencing (30x mean coverage) and
discovery-supportive data analysis services for a total of
six human exomes, to be distributed among the three
research groups who submit the most compelling, feasi-
ble proposals on what pair of human exomes they would
sequence and why. We’d love to hear from imaginative
human evolutionary geneticists on what questions they
might study here. The deadline for application sub-
missions is 15 June 2010. Please see the attached an-
nouncement sheet for more information on the awards.
Thanks for spreading the word, if it’s appropriate, and
all best!
Nathan
– Nathaniel Pearson, PhD Director of Research Knome,
Inc. 1 Main St, Suite 530 Cambridge, MA 02142 USA
Tel. 617.250.8460 Fax 617.250.8610
Nathaniel Pearson <npearson@knome.com >
MEDUSA error in R
Dear colleagues,
I’m trying to run MEDUSA in R but I get an error
message that I don’t understand when trying to sum-
marize the results, and I can’t get pass through it. Can
anyone help?
I have my pruned phylogenetic tree and a table of
species richness that seems to be read ok in R.
Phylogenetic tree with 14 tips and 13 internal nodes.
Tip labels: Da, Dv, Do, Dc, Dq, Dl, ...
Rooted; includes branch lengths. >spsrichness V1 V2June 1, 2010 EvolDir 61
1 Da 7 2 Dv 13 3 Do 6 4 Dc 3 5 Dq 10 6 Dl 3 . . .
I then run Medusa and it seems to me that it works ok:
> medusa.out <- runMedusa(medusa.tree,
spsrichness, estimateExtinction = T, modelLimit
= 20, cutAtStem = T, startR = 0.05, startE = 0.01)
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
>medusa.out [,1] [,2] [,3] [,4] [,5] [1,] 0 -70.11320
2 144.2264 144.748136 [2,] 11 -67.25890 5 144.5178
147.374937 [3,] 14 -65.23652 8 146.4730 154.473034 [4,]
9 -64.23225 11 150.4645 168.064505 [5,] 20 -63.65072
14 155.3014 190.301442 [6,] 4 -63.18208 17 160.3642
228.364160 [7,] 1 -62.80783 20 165.6157 305.615664 [8,]
6 -62.35120 23 170.7024 538.702396 [9,] 19 -61.82863 26
175.6573 Inf [10,] 7 -61.34799 29 180.6960 -399.304029
[11,] 27 -60.79912 32 185.5982 -166.401763 [12,] 10
-59.97216 35 189.9443 -90.055671 [13,] 17 -58.54577
38 193.0915 -53.908454 [14,] 16 -57.96749 41 197.9350
-31.665023 [15,] 2 -57.50421 44 203.0084 -16.991584
[16,] 8 -55.54274 47 205.0855 -9.771653 [17,] 3 -55.25354
50 210.5071 -1.992927 [18,] 5 -54.80782 53 215.6156
3.615631 [19,] 21 -54.21820 56 220.4364 7.636404 [20,]
12 -54.09977 59 226.1995 11.654093 [21,] 13 -53.06485
62 230.1297 13.129693
Then I try to summarise by running summaryMedusa
and I get the wretched error message:
> summaryMedusa(medusa.tree, sps richness,
medusa.out, cutoﬀ = 4, plotTree = TRUE, useC-
orrection = FALSE, cutAtStem = TRUE) Error en z[i
+ sum(interior), ] <- c(anc, dec, startTime, endTime,
sr, : n´ umero de items para para sustituir no es un
m´ ultiplo de la longitud del reemplazo
(Sorry it is in Spanish, but it translates to “Error in z[i
+ sum(interior), ] <- c(anc, dec, startTime, endTime,
sr, : number of items to shift are not a multiple of the
length of the shift”)
Any idea of what it means and how I can get Medusa
to run? Thank you very much in advance.
Ramiro
Dr. Ramiro Morales-Hojas Molecular Evolution lab
IBMC-Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular Rua
do Campo Alegre 823 4150-180 Porto Portugal
Tel.: +351 226 074 900 extension 1612
rmhojas@ibmc.up.pt
MEDUSA error in R answersDear all,
I had some interest by other members of evoldir to know
the answer to my question regarding the error running
MEDUSA in R. Fortunately I had a couple of very use-
ful comments and am able to run it now. Here are the
two comments:
Hi Ramiro,
I was having this same problem, and I found that it has
to do with the table layout. In runMedusa, it inserts
a column of tip ages (which in your case would be all
zeros), but in summaryMedusa it does not insert this
same column but the program expects that column in
order to run. Its a simple enough problem to ﬁx. I
just inserted a column of zeros, but when I mentioned
this problem to Luke Harmon, he provided scripts that
ﬁxed the issue. I’ve attached his scripts to this email.
Just load these into R and that should ﬁx the problem.
Good luck!
cheers, Elizabeth
Hi Ramiro,
This is a bug in the current version of Medusa. Expect
a new version soon. In the meantime, you can source
the attached ﬁles and things should work.
Luke
Thanks a lot for the replies and hope that it helps other
people.
Cheers,
Ramiro
Dr. Ramiro Morales-Hojas Molecular Evolution lab
IBMC-Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular Rua
do Campo Alegre 823 4150-180 Porto Portugal
Tel.: +351 226 074 900 extension 1612 rmho-
jas@ibmc.up.pt
rmhojas@ibmc.up.pt
Mendels manuscript
Mendels’s original manuscript “Versuche ¨ uber Planzen-
Hybride” has been found!
The original handwritten document has been found and
is in excellent condition. There is a chance that the
document will again be lost to the scientiﬁc community.
The document is being held by the law ﬁrm: Wahlert in62 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Stuttgart, Germany. Please contact them and let them
know that this document must be preserved. The Ger-
man government is trying to determine if it should be
listed as a German cultural treasure, but the law ﬁrm
may be not cooperating. Thanks for your help!
Tel. +49 711 1876-277 Fax. +49 711 1876-103
horst.teller@wahlert-law.com
William Taeusch <taeusch@gmail.com >
NESCent CallCourseProposals
Call for Evolutionary Courses and Course Proposals at
NESCent
What courses would you like to see oﬀered to the evo-
lution community?
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) is expanding its course oﬀerings and would like
your suggestions.
NESCent welcomes ideas and proposals for
postgraduate-level short courses (1-2 weeks) on
topics of relevance to synthetic evolutionary science.
Do you have a bright idea? Please let us know.
We are seeking course proposals in two phases:
Phase 1 (April 22 - May 15) - Solicitation of course
ideas from the evolutionary biology community
NESCent is soliciting ideas for short courses from the
community at large. Ideas should be a paragraph or
two, and include the following: A description of the
topic, the intended audience, evidence for demand and
uniqueness, and (optionally) nominations for instruc-
tors. This is your opportunity to tell us what new
courses you would like to see, and our eﬀort to iden-
tify the courses most in demand from the evolutionary
biology community.
Topic suggestions can be submitted via email to
eog@nescent.org (Deadline May 15).
All ideas will be posted online MAY 15. The evolution-
ary biology community will be encouraged to vote for
topics of particular interest through the end of May.
The most successful topics will be solicited for full
course proposals in Phase 2 (see below), and nominated
instructors will be notiﬁed of the opportunity to apply
for consideration.
Phase 2 (Deadline July 10) - Solicitation of full courseproposals
Full-length proposals from those interested in being in-
structors are accepted in the second phase. These may
address the topics speciﬁcally listed in the call, but need
not be restricted to those topics. Note that anyone can
submit a full proposal at this point, even if it has not
been submitted and voted upon in Phase 1.
For a list of current and previous courses oﬀered at
NESCent see http://www.nescent.org/courses/ . For
additional details contact the NESCent Education and
Outreach group at eog@nescent.org.
Jory Weintraub <jory@unc.edu >
Next Generation InHouse
Computing 2
Dear All
Further to Jackie Lighten’s round robin query regarding
Linux boxes and second generation sequencing bioin-
formatics pasted below, I just wanted to contribute a
further bit of info that may save the community some
frustration, or stimulate feedback that may help people
out.
Central to 454 Roche’s genomic/transcriptomic se-
quence assembly is the Newbler assembly suite. The
last time I checked (admnittedly a while ago), 454 were
permitting downloads of their Oﬀ Instrument Applica-
tion, so that users could analyse their own data from
.sﬀ ﬁles etc. Check with your 454 Roche representative
to establish if this is still the case.
The rub is, when I last tried, I could only install the Oﬀ
Instrument Application on to a Red Hat distribution of
Linux and they were only supporting the installation of
the software on to Red Hat (includes yearly subscrip-
tion fee). I tried Ubuntu plus a couple of others, but
with no success.
Thus, if you have need a for the Newbler suite and the
above still holds, you may want to choose the Linux
distribution carefully before setting up your bioinfor-
matics toolkit.
Establishing virtual machines via VMWare gives you a
great deal of ﬂexibility in your choice of Linux distri-
butions.
If anyone has any feedback on the above, it would be
good to hear from you?June 1, 2010 EvolDir 63
All the best
Si Creer
Simon Creer Senior Research Fellow Molecular Ecology
and Fisheries Genetics Lab Environment Centre Wales
Building School of Biological Sciences Bangor Univer-
sity Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK
e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +1248 382302
Fax: +1248 371644 Home Page: http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/ ˜ bssa0d/ “Creer,Simon”
<s.creer@bangor.ac.uk >
Nucleotide to protein translations
answers
Dear colleagues,
Thank you very much for your many replies! There are
a number of top hits and a few programs only men-
tioned once or twice. Most are free to download as
well.
Top hits are old favourites:
MEGA (Windows) http://www.megasoftware.net
BioEdit (Windows) http://www.mbio.ncsu.edu/-
BioEdit/bioedit.html Se-Al (Mac) http://-
tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/seal/ Others:
TranslatorX (online) http://translatorx.co.uk
MacClade (Mac, not free) http://macclade.org/-
macclade.html Mesquite (all platforms) http:/-
/mesquiteproject.org/mesquite/mesquite.html
Seaview (all platforms) http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/-
software/seaview.html DAMBE (all plat-
forms) http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp
TransAlign.pl http://www.molekularesystematik.uni-
oldenburg.de/33997.html Geneious (not free)
http://www.geneious.com DNAsp (all platforms)
http://www2.ub.es/dnasp/download.html t-coﬀee (all
platforms or online) http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/t-
coﬀee/index.html Proseq (Windos, Linux) http://-
dps.plants.ox.ac.uk/sequencing/proseq.htm Mbetool-
box (all platforms) http://www.bioinformatics.org/-
mbetoolbox/ FAST (soon to be released by David
Ardell)
NB: I used BioEdit as I have already used it for manual
alignment editing (I just didn’t see the toggle function
to protein!).
Just a word of warning: the toggle function Ctl+A toselect all sequences and Ctl+G or Ctr+T to toggle to
protein view (and back) will not save the protein view!
You need to use the dropdown menu <sequence >and
select the permanent translation option. And when you
do this, it will ’correct’ your protein for those nasty
frameshifts and premature STOP codons and not tell
you about it! It just inserts an ’X’ for the missing
residue! So you need to check your alignment carefully
to ﬁnd those with problems.
Thanks again everyone!
Happy translating,
Birgit
NOTE NEW PHONE NO!
Birgit Meldal, Ph.D. Division of Transfusion Medicine
Department of Haematology University of Cambridge
NHS Blood & Transplant, Cambridge Centre Long
Road Cambridge CB2 0PT U.K.
+44 1223 588049
bhmm2@cam.ac.uk
Outsource ampliﬁcation sequencing
Dear EvolDir list members,
For my PhD project, I wish to generate DNA sequence
data for phylogenetic analysis of an Afrotropical but-
terﬂy genus (Cymothoe). Unfortunately, time does not
allow me to generate all the data myself. Therefore,
I am considering outsourcing the ampliﬁcation and se-
quencing of 3-5 nuclear regions for about 30-50 speci-
mens.
I have heard of possibilities for outsourcing sequencing
in Korea. But I have no idea about pricing and whether
it is also possible to outsource ampliﬁcation.
Does anyone have experience with outsourcing this kind
of labwork? I’d be very interested in any experiences
(good or bad), price indications and/or recommenda-
tions you may have.
Thanks in advance!
Robin
robin.vanvelzen@wur.nl
Robin van Velzen PhD student Netherlands Centre for
Biodiversity Naturalis (section NHN) Biosystematics
Group Wageningen University64 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Wageningen Campus, Radix building 107, Room
W4.Aa.095 Droevendaalsesteeg 1, 6708 PB Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands PO Box 647, 6700 AP Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands Tel. +31 (0)317 483425 http://-
www.bis.wur.nl Robin.vanVelzen@wur.nl
Outsource ampliﬁcation sequencing
answers
Dear all,
I have received many emails with suggestions and rec-
ommendations regarding my question about outsourc-
ing DNA ampliﬁcation and sequencing and wish to
thank everyone who has been so kind to reply to my
request!
Please ﬁnd below a summary of the suggestions and
recommendations:
Many people pointed out that the ’Korea’ op-
tion implies using services oﬀered by Macrogen
(www.macrogen.com ) that currently also has an of-
ﬁce in The Netherlands. Their sequencing services are
highly recommended by most, and are cheap (5-7 USD
per sample) but they don’t oﬀer PCR ampliﬁcation.
Another recommendation is Functional Biosciences Inc
in Wisconsin, USA ( http://www.functionalbio.com )
that oﬀers pcr ampliﬁcation and direct sequencing
plates of DNA for 5-600 USD.
A recommended European option is Genoscreen from
France ( http://www.genoscreen.fr/index eng.htm ) who
can do various things, including tailor-made analyses.
The Nevada Genomics Centre in the USA ( http://-
www.ag.unr.edu/genomics/ ) oﬀers various services in-
cluding extraction, ampliﬁcation and sequencing and
are recommended for their responsiveness and fast
work.
I also received several kind emails directly from
labs oﬀering PCR ampliﬁcation and sequenc-
ing services: Genetic Marker Services ( http://-
geneticmarkerservices.com/ ) from the UK Central
Analytical Facility at Stellenbosch University in
South Africa ( http://academic.sun.ac.za/saf/ ) Georgia
Genomics Facility in the USA ( http://dna.uga.edu/-
) Fragment Analysis & DNA Sequencing Services
(FADSS) in British Columbia, Canada ( http:/-
/web.ubc.ca/okanagan/ikbarberschool/research/-
analytical/fadss.htm l)I hope the above list is of help for people considering
outsourcing their labwork, and does not qualify as ad-
vertising (I am sure there are many more companies
out there).
All the best,
Robin
Robin van Velzen PhD student Netherlands Centre for
Biodiversity Naturalis (section NHN) Biosystematics
Group Wageningen University
Wageningen Campus, Radix building 107, Room
W4.Aa.095 Droevendaalsesteeg 1, 6708 PB Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands PO Box 647, 6700 AP Wagenin-
gen, The Netherlands Tel. +31 (0)317 483425 http://-
www.bis.wur.nl —–my original post—–
Dear EvolDir list members, For my PhD project, I wish
to generate DNA sequence data for phylogenetic analy-
sis of an Afrotropical butterﬂy genus (Cymothoe). Un-
fortunately, time does not allow me to generate all the
data myself. Therefore, I am considering outsourcing
the ampliﬁcation and sequencing of 3-5 nuclear regions
for about 30-50 specimens. I have heard of possibili-
ties for outsourcing sequencing in Korea. But I have
no idea about pricing and whether it is also possible to
outsource ampliﬁcation. Does anyone have experience
with outsourcing this kind of labwork? I’d be very in-
terested in any experiences (good or bad), price indica-
tions and/or recommendations you may have. Thanks
in advance! Robin
Robin.vanVelzen@wur.nl
Problems with SAMOVA software
Dear Evoldir members,
I am having diﬃculty running the SAMOVA 1.0 soft-
ware and was wondering if anyone had come across the
problem before and knows of a solution. The program
requires two input ﬁles, one a Arlequin ﬁle, and the
other a ﬁle specifying the geographical locations of the
sampled populations. Examples of both types of ﬁle
come with the software but when I load the example
ﬁles or my own, I always receive the same error mes-
sage (see below) and the software crashes.
Reading Project: Reading general settings in input ﬁle
... 1<ERROR # 1 >from function “Project::open()” :
unable to read Proﬁle Settings Error opening project...
proj AMO.arp Error during run ofJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 65
If anyone can help solve this problem I would be most
grateful to hear from you.
Best wishes Sean Fitzpatrick
Sean Michael Fitzpatrick <sﬁtzpatrick10@qub.ac.uk >
Samples to the UK
Hi there,
I have a quick note for EvolDir. I recently tried to have
samples of * Drosophila* sent by Fedex to the UK from
the US, through Stansted airport. The samples were
denied entry to the UK. Fedex told me that the rea-
son for this is that DEFRA/Customs have a new rule
as of 12 months ago that *Drosophila *samples are not
allowed to go through Stanstead airport due to han-
dling restrictions. The exact details are unclear but it
means you can’t use Fedex to mail samples from the
US as they operate mainly out of Stansted in the UK.
If you do mail samples from the US make sure to go
with a courier that operates through either Heathrow,
Gatwick or Manchester as these airports are cleared to
receive and process *Drosophila* samples. This could
extend to other biological samples - but I’m not sure
on this.
Regards,
Gilbert Smith.
– Gilbert Smith School of Biology Dyers Brae House
University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife Scotland
KY16 9TH
Tel: (44) 1334 463371
Gilbert Smith <gs70@st-andrews.ac.uk >
ShortCourses YouWouldLike
What Short Courses Would You Like To See Oﬀered to
the Evolution Community?
Let your voice be heard! NESCent (The National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center) is expanding its course of-
ferings and would like community feedback on potential
new short courses (1-2 weeks in duration) to oﬀer.
As a result of our recent call for suggestions, we receivedseveral great ideas for new courses. Your feedback will
help us determine which ideas to solicit for full propos-
als.
To see the ideas and provide your input, please go to
https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=-
dGFpaTkwZGJidzBmZEhLZHRuY1dfdEE6MQ by
May 31st, 2010. At that time, we will issue a call for
full proposals, which will be due by July 10th, 2010.
If you have questions, please contact Jory Weintraub
(jory@nescent.org).
Thank you for your input!
Jory
jory@nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@unc.edu >
ShortCourses YouWouldLike 2
Last Chance to Voice Your Opinion: What Short
Courses Would You Like To See Oﬀered to the Evo-
lution Community?
Let your voice be heard! NESCent (The National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center) is expanding its course of-
ferings and would like community feedback on potential
new short courses (1-2 weeks in duration) to oﬀer.
As a result of our recent call for suggestions, we received
several great ideas for new courses. Your feedback will
help us determine which ideas to solicit for full propos-
als.
To see the ideas and provide your input, please go to
https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=-
dGFpaTkwZGJidzBmZEhLZHRuY1dfdEE6MQ by
May 31st, 2010. At that time, we will issue a call for
full proposals, which will be due by July 10th, 2010.
If you have questions, please contact Jory Weintraub
(jory@nescent.org).
Thank you for your input!
Jory Weintraub <jory@unc.edu >
Software CANGS for 454 data66 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Update of CANGS, a user-friendly utility of processing
and analyzing 454 G-FLX data in biodiversity studies
new features:
1) poly N tails are removed from the 3’ ends of the
reads before trimming adapter B 2) barcodes of diﬀer-
ent length are accepted 3) ﬁltering of reads with am-
biguous bases has been made optional 4) We introduced
a new option to ﬁlter for sequencing errors. Rather than
conditioning on a minimum count in the data set, we
condition on the occurrence in independent data sets.
CANGS is available at: http://i122server.vu-
wien.ac.at/pop/software.html In addition to these
new features, CANGS provides the following options: -
removal of PCR primers - quality ﬁltering of sequences
- generates input ﬁles for further downstream anal-
yses (e.g.: rarefaction) - links 454 sequences with a
taxonomic name from GenBank (various options are
provided)
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik
Veterin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Josef Bau-
mann Gasse 1 1210 Wien Austria/Europe phone:
+43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390 http://-
i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Graduate School
of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-vienna.at
VetCore Illumina Sequencing Service http://-
i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/seq/VetCore2.htm
schlotc@gmail.com
Software Phobos update
Dear Community,
Phobos is a widely used tandem repeat search program,
for which an updated version is now available from my
web page.
http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/spezzoo/cm/-
cmphobos.htm Particularly interesting for population
genetic studies is the integration of Phobos in tools to
design ﬂanking primers (see below).
The power of Phobos in a genome comparison context,
can be seen in our recent paper: “Genome-wide anal-
ysis of tandem repeats in Daphnia pulex - a compar-
ative approach” which can be viewed here: http://-
www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/11/277 Phobos is
free for academic users.
Some of the most important features are:- search modes for perfect and imperfect tandem re-
peats.
* perfect repeats can be detected in the pattern size
range from 1 to several thousand bp in complete
genomes
* imperfect repeats The pattern size range is only lim-
ited by the computational power. For the compara-
tive analysis mentioned above, we used the pattern size
range of 1-50 bp.
- Phobos uses an exact, in particular non-probabilistic
search algorithm.
- Phobos is fast. Detecting imperfect microsatellites (1-
6bp) in the complete genome of homo sapiens takes less
than 30 minutes (mismatch and gap penalty of -6) on
a modern computer.
- Phobos comes as a version with GUI and a command-
line version.
- The main feature of Phobos is the high precision with
which it ﬁnds tandem repeats. This makes Phobos an
ideal tool also for a statistical analysis of tandem re-
peats in genomic libraries and complete genomes.
Since the ﬁrst announcement on evoldir in January
2008, Phobos has become much more eﬃcient and many
new features have been added. For example:
- new output formats requested by users.
- it is now possibility to design ﬂanking primers for tan-
dem repeats, by using one of the following approaches:
* STAMP: Is an open source primer design pipeline for
tandem repeats build on the powerful Staden package.
(Can also be downloaded from my web page.)
* Geneious plugin: This is a plugin for the Geneious
software.
Project status: (current Phobos version 3.3.11)
Phobos has been tested extensively by us and the com-
munity of several hundred users. Since its release, only
few bugs have been detected and removed. For the cur-
rent version no problems are know. We use Phobos in
our lab, from population genetics analyses to genome
comparison.
Best regards,
Dr. Christoph Mayer Department of Animal Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Biodiversity, NDEF 05/751 Ruhr-
Universitaet Bochum 44780 Bochum Germany
Email: cm@tp4.rub.de Web.: www.ruhr-uni-
bochum.de/spezzoo/cm Tel.: 0234 32 25072
Christoph Mayer <cm@tp4.ruhr-uni-bochum.de >June 1, 2010 EvolDir 67
cm@tp4.rub.de
Software TranslatorX
Dear Colleagues.
I hope you will not mind us bringing this FREE website
to your attention.
http://www.translatorx.co.uk/ TranslatorX is a tool
to align protein-coding nucleotide sequences based on
the corresponding amino acid alignments. Given a set
of nucleotide sequences, TranslatorX translates them to
amino acids using the appropriate genetic code, aligns
those amino acid sequences and, from the resulting
alignment, determines the optimal alignment of nu-
cleotide sequences. Because a diﬀerent genetic code can
be set for each taxon, the software is particularly useful
for comparative studies of mitochondrial genomes.
Further capabilities of the software are described on the
website or in this publication:
Abascal F, Zardoya R, Telford MJ (2010) Trans-
latorX: multiple alignment of nucleotide sequences
guided by amino acid translations. Nucleic Acids Res.
doi:10.1093/nar/gkq291
We hope you ﬁnd it useful.
Best wishes
Federico Abascal, Rafael Zardoya and Max Telford.
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department of
Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University
College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street,
London WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554
(Internal: 32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096 http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/academic-staﬀ/telford/-
telford.html TranslatorX: multiple alignment of
nucleotide sequences guided by amino acid translations
http://www.translatorx.co.uk/ Telford & Littlewood:
Animal Evolution. OUP http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/-
product/9780199570300.do Files and software for
downloading:
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis.
Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y structure data in
rRNA phylogenetic analyses.
MtZoa and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution
matricesHacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
http://web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-
Downloads.html Xenoturbella You Tube video http:/-
/uk.youtube.com/watch?v=3DyJXNcoxL2Xs The
Linnean Society of London http://www.linnean.org/
m.telford@ucl.ac.uk
SouthAfrica Volunteers
MouseEvolution
Volunteers needed as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Evolution and Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the
Succulent Karoo of South Africa
July/August to December 2010
Opportunity: This is a great opportunity for anybody
who wants to get more experience in ﬁeld work relating
to evolution, ecology and behavior before starting an
MsC or PhD project.
Project: We study the evolutionary and ecological rea-
sons as well as physiological mechanisms of group living,
paternal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility
in the striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the
habitat is open, direct behavioral observations in the
ﬁeld are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students are preferred as
candidates. Applicants must have an interest in
working in the ﬁeld and with animals. Hard working
conditions will await applicants, as the study species
gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o‘ clock), and
stops its activity with dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work during
nights might also be necessary. Work in the ﬁeld will
be done for 5 days a week. Applicants must be able
to manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at night
in winter, sometimes over 40C during summer days).
Applicants must both be prepared to live for long
periods in the loneliness of the ﬁeld and to be part of
a small social group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping, marking and radio-
tracking of striped mice; direct behavioral observations
in the ﬁeld. Volunteers are also expected to help with
maintenance of the research station (water pump, solar
power, etc.)
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-68 EvolDir June 1, 2010
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
1000 (around 105 Euro) must be paid for accommo-
dation at the research station. For students with their
own undergraduate project, a fee of Rand 1250 (approx.
130 Euro) per month applies. Students must buy their
own food etc in Springbok (costs of about R 2000 or
210 Euro/month). Including extras, you should expect
costs of about 300 - 400 Euros per month. Students
get an invitation letter which they can use to apply for
funding in their home country (eg. DAAD in Germany,
SANW in Switzerland).
Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: At the moment we are looking for
volunteers for the period July / August to December
2010. The volunteer project is ongoing, i.e. positions
will also be available in 2011. Volunteers are expected
to stay at least 2 months, but longer periods of up to
6months are preferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch.
More information under www.stripedmouse.com Con-
tact via e-mail: carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin
Research Assistant, Department of Animal Behavior,
University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057
Zurich, Switzerland.
Tel: +41 - (0)44 635 5486
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
WORKING AS A FIELD ASSISTANT IN GOEGAP
NATURE RESERVE
A report by Romy H¨ oppli, student at the University of
Zurich, who staid in Goegap June to August 2008
Blue skies without a single cloud for six weeks rocky
mountains with little vegetation yellow, orange and
pink ﬁelds of ﬂowers in whatever direction you look
small mammals, lizards and birds in our front yard
and Mountain Zebras, Springbok and Ostrich right next
door...This was my time at the Succulent Karoo Research Sta-
tion in Goegap Nature Reserve in South Africa! During
six weeks from the beginning of July until the middle of
August I’ve been living here, studying mice, experienc-
ing nature like never before and being part of a small
community where there was always something to laugh
and joke about!
After arriving in Goegap, right the next morning my
scientiﬁc adventure in South Africa began: Setting and
checking traps, nest observations and radio-tracking
were our daily routine. While I got bitten by the mice
quite often in the beginning and my right middle ﬁn-
ger was scarred all over, I improved quickly shaking the
mice out of the traps, weighing them and checking the
number of the ear tag. Other duties like cleaning the
cages of the mice in the captive colony, washing the dirt
from probably several months out of the traps, painting
the new Wendy House and putting in a ﬂoor
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
StazioneZoologica Italy
Dear EvolDir community the Stazione Zoologica of An-
ton Dohrn Naples might be suppressed by the Italian
Government. We need of your help. If you wish that the
Stazione Zoologica remains as an autonomous scientiﬁc
Institution, please ﬁll the form at http://www.szn.it/-
SZNWeb/showpage/1? languageId =2 Please contact
as many colleagues as you can
Gabriele Procaccini Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn of
Naples
pro@szn.it
Tajikistan collaboration
A coleopterologists >>cry for help <<from Tajikistan:
I recently was in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, for research. In
this context, I had a longer conversation (in Russian)
with Prof. Abdusalaya Kh. Kadyrov.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 69
He is close to retirement and spent most of his pro-
fessional life on a large (some thousands of specimens)
collection of the following families of beetles from most
parts of southwestern Tajikistan (as well as other parts
of Tajikistan and Central Asia).
Cerambycidae Buprestidae Elateridae Staphylinidae
Scarabaeidae
He believes that this collection contains several
(many?!) new species and is unique in its geographic
context. During the time of the civil war in the 1990ies,
and because of currently miserable scientiﬁc circum-
stances in Tajikistan (as well as because of no knowl-
edge of English), Kadyrov lost his few previous con-
tacts to some international colleagues. He would like
to re-initiate collaborations with specialists who will
publish with him on his collections, and can at best
visit him and the collection in Dushanbe. In the case
of co-authorships, he is also ready to share parts of his
material, BUT NOT TO SELL IT, ONLY!
A MAJOR LIMITATION is that neither Prof. Kady-
rov nor his doctoral student can speak English. Contact
and further collaboration need to be in Russian or Tajik
(a modern variety of Farsi/Persian).
Email him through his doctoral student, Dilshoda
Yakubova:
yadsh@yandex.ru or dilios@mail.ru
His address is: Tajikskii Nationalnyi Universitet Bio-
logicheski Fakultet, Kafedra Zoologii Dushanbe, Tajik-
istan
His home telephone: 0092 2 36 62 62
Best regards, Matthias Stoeck
PS: I personally would like to add that I am only the
messenger who would like to help...I cannot/will not
take responsibility for any future outcomes, be them
positive or negative.
Matthias St¨ ock University of Lausanne Department of
Ecology and Evolution (DEE) UNIL, Biophore, CH-
1015 Lausanne Switzerland http://www.unil.ch/dee/-
page40038.html email: matthias.stoeck@unil.ch
Matthias Stoeck <matthias.stoeck@unil.ch >
Warbler Paternity dataI don’t think this message got through the ﬁrst time,
so I’m trying again. If you’ve received it twice, I apolo-
gize. I am a graduate student at UC Riverside and I’m
seeking data on rates of extra-pair paternity in species
of wood warbler (Family Parulidae) as part of a com-
parative analysis. Any unpublished information about
1) the percentage of nests that contain extra-pair young
and 2)the total percentage of extra-pair young in war-
bler species would be greatly appreciated. Anyone who
can provide me with such information will be grate-
fully acknowledged and cited. My email is anne.jacobs
at ucr.edu
Webserver GrassPortal
grassPhylogenetics
GrassPortal ( www.grassportal.org ) will allow users to
access and visualize information on the name and de-
scription, geographical distribution, ecological char-
acteristics and evolutionary relationships for all the
worlds grass species. GrassPortal will integrate and
link these data within a web interface, providing re-
search and educational users with tools for interacting,
discovering and extracting information.
We are currently recruiting potential users and would
like participants to take part in our user evaluation sur-
vey and in so doing also have the option to become early
users of the beta-version of the portal before it goes
publicly online. The online survey provides a number
of diﬀerent scenarios for the use of GrassPortal and
then asks a number of questions of the user that will
help us to decide on the ultimate structure and content
of GrassPortal. This is a very important part of the
portal design as it will tell us what users actually do
and dont want from GrassPortal.
If you are interested in participating, please email Ver-
non Visser for further details (vernon@grassportal.org).
Vernon Visser
Post-doctoral Research Associate Dept. of Animal and
Plant Sciences Alfred Denny Building The University
of Sheﬃeld Western Bank S10 2TN United Kingdom
Tel: +44 777 496 2894
Vernon Visser <vervis@gmail.com >70 EvolDir June 1, 2010
PostDocs
AarhusU CancerMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
BiKF Germany Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ClemsonU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ErasmusMC Rotterdam HumanPopulationGenetics 72
ETH Zurich TheoreticalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Finland 2 MolecularSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
France Microme PathwayCuration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
GhentU SystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
HatﬁeldMarineCenter GenomicDiversityWhales . . . . 75
HatﬁeldMarineCenter WhaleGenomicDiversity . . . . 76
IowaStateU EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MaxPlanckTubingen Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
MiamiU InsectEvodevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Netherlands EvolutionaryPopulationDynamics . . . . . 78
Netherlands GeneSpread . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
NewYorkU EvolutionarySystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 79
NorthCarolinaStateU StatisticalGenetics Bioinformat-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
QueenMaryULondon CulturalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 80
QueenMaryULondon Mimicry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
RiceU HybridizationAndAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
SanDiegoStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 82
Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UArizona OriginMulticellularLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UBern EvolutionaryPlantEpigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UBristol BehaviourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84UBritishColumbia EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UCaliforniaMerced CoralReefGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UCaliforniaSanDiego YeastEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UCaliforniaSantaCruz PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . 85
UCLondon ExcellenceFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UCollegeLondon FlatwormEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UExeter BehaviourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UGeorgia CoralGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UJohannesburg PlantDNABarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
ULausanne FrogSexChromosomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UMaryland Computational Comparative Phylogenetics
89
UNebraska Lincoln AphidBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UNebraska Lincoln AphidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UNotreDame InvasiveSpeciesEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UOklahoma BiologicalStation EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . 91
UOxford SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
USydney MathematicalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UTexasArlington TransposonGenomeEvolution . . . . 93
UWashington InvertebrateTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UWesternSydney InsectAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UWisconsinMilwaukee EcologicalGenetics . . . . . . . . . 95
Xishuangbanna TropicalGarden Biodiversity . . . . . . . 95
Zurich AngiospermRadiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
AarhusU CancerMolecularEvolution
I have a post doc opening, which I would appreciate
if you could post. It is in cancer genomics, but the
group also works in molecular evolution and I would
thus appreciate to target this audience as well.
Best, Jakob Skou Pedersen
—-
Post-doctoral position in cancer genomics at Aarhus
University, Denmark
A post-doctoral position (three years) is available in
the bioinformatics group at the Department of Molec-
ular Medicine (MOMA), Aarhus University Hospital,
Skejby, Denmark, to study the function of ncRNAs incancer and the potential clinical applications. The suc-
cessful applicant will both be responsible for individual
projects and participate in large collaborations involv-
ing Danish biotech companies. Overall, the research
will focus on the analysis of large collections of clini-
cal samples from several types of cancer tumors, which
will be characterized using various functional genomics
techniques, including NGS and ncRNA micro-array ex-
pression proﬁling. The aim is to identify and charac-
terize ncRNAs that are dys-regulated in cancer using
integrated bioinformatical analysis of these data sets.
The ideal applicant holds a Ph.D. degree in bioinfor-
matics or a related discipline with relevant publica-
tions in genomics. Demonstrated experience in large-
scale data analysis using statistical or machine-learning
methods is required. Experience with analysis of micro-
array data or next generation sequencing data is highly
desirable.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 71
The Department of Molecular Medicine oﬀers a stim-
ulating interdisciplinary research environment with
strong clinical ties, focusing on translational cancer re-
search. The department has long experience with can-
cer genomics and houses a next generation sequencing
facility (see http://www.mdl.dk/ for further informa-
tion). The bioinformatics group, headed by associate
professor Jakob Skou Pedersen, is devoted to the study
of non-coding RNAs in gene- regulation and cancer de-
velopment. The work includes both the development
of sound statistical methods and their application in
genomics data analysis.
Currently, the monthly postdoc salary begins around
4800 including supplements and pension. Non-Danish
and Danish applicants may be eligible for tax reduc-
tions, if they have not lived in Denmark the last 3 years.
For more information on the position, contact ass. prof.
Jakob Skou Pedersen (e-mail: jakob.skou@ki.au.dk;
phone: +45 89492 9412).
For a full description and application guidelines
seehttp://jobsys.au.dk/en/sun/academic-positions/ .
Jakob Skou Pedersen <jsp@binf.ku.dk >
BiKF Germany Biodiversity
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) is a new interdisciplinary institute with the mis-
sion to carry out internationally outstanding research
on the interactions of biodiversity and climate change
on the organism level. It has been founded by Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-
University Frankfurt am Main, and others partners.
The Centre is funded by the Federal State of Hesse
through its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc
and Economic Excellence (LOEWE). It provides a new,
dynamic research environment that integrates a variety
of disciplines from both natural and social sciences. The
Project Area D “Ecological Genomics” invites applica-
tions for the position of a
Postdoctoral Researcher Biodiversity of arctic verte-
brates
The successful candidate will have a PhD in genet-
ics, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, molecular
ecology or related ﬁelds and a strong, independent re-
search record. Good laboratory experience, sequence
analysis, teamwork skills, supervision of PhD students
and introduction of techniques to new lab members areexpected. Familiarity with next generation sequenc-
ing is an advantage. Furthermore, good written and
oral communication skills in English, the willingness
to write research-funding proposals and to learn some
German are essential for a rewarding research.
The main work will be to establish molecular tech-
niques, sequencing strategies, and analytical methods
to link evolutionary processes in vertebrates (preferably
arctic mammals) with environmental changes. This re-
search will be done in collaboration with a lab man-
ager and graduate/undergraduate students that will be
involved in the project. Frankfurt is a highly attrac-
tive city in beautiful surroundings, with a multinational
population, and many educational and recreational op-
portunities. Supervising an own PhD student is nego-
tiable.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13). The Research Centre
BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed
severely handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence.
Target start date is September 01, 2010. The position
will be oﬀered for 3 years, with the possibility of an ex-
tension pending performance and availability of funds.
The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main, Ger-
many. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung.
Please send your application by e-mail attachment,
mentioning the reference of this position (#D17) and
including a letter outlining your suitability for the post,
a detailed CV, contact details of 2 referees and a copy of
your thesis and other relevant exams before June 20th
to:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Co-
ordinator Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre,
Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. E-mail to Service and Finances: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de. For enquiries about the position
and the contract conditions please write to Prof. Dr.
A. Janke (ajanke@senckenberg.de).
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >
ClemsonU PopulationGenomics
A National Science Foundation funded Post-Doctoral
Research Position is available in the Department of72 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Biological Sciences at Clemson University. The Post-
doc will work collaboratively with the senior scientist
and graduate students on genomic approaches to pop-
ulation genetics, evolution, and adaptation. The suc-
cessful candidate will be involved with data collection
and analysis of large sequence data sets, some gathered
with “next-generation” methods plus others collected
with Sanger-sequencing. The projects require labora-
tory skills for preparing high quality genomic DNA for
PCR and sequencing, bioinformatics skills for de novo
assembly and alignment and annotation of orthologous
sequences, and/or experience with population genetic
analyses. In addition to the primary research respon-
sibilities, duties will include assisting and mentoring
graduate students, preparation of manuscripts for pub-
lication, and the organization and curation of large se-
quence datasets. Applicants are required to have a
Ph.D. in biological sciences or related ﬁeld.
Applicants should make initial inquiries to clemsonge-
nomicspostdoc@gmail.com , followed by electronic
transfer of their CV, a letter of intent describing candi-
date’s motivation, qualiﬁcations, skills, and experience
relevant to this position, plus contact information for
three references. Applications will be reviewed starting
10 May 2010 and until the position is ﬁlled.
ErasmusMC Rotterdam
HumanPopulationGenetics
“The Department of Forensic Molecular Biology (FMB)
of the Erasmus University Medical Centre Rotter-
dam (Erasmus MC) in the Netherlands ( http://-
www.erasmusmc.nl/fmb/research/ ) oﬀers a research
position for a young postdoctoral scientists to work
with genome-wide SNP population data for various pur-
poses. Salary is competitive and will be according to
experience. Tentative starting date is November 2010.
The position is planned for 2 years with possible exten-
sion. Suitable PhD students who will have their degree
by the end of 2010 are also encouraged to apply.
We are looking for a highly motivated person interested
on developing his/her scientiﬁc skills in the interdisci-
plinary department of FMB consisting of international
members (working language is English). The FMB is
a well established department within the Erasmus MC,
with an over the average of the Eramsus MC scientiﬁc
production. The main FMB research focus is to study
various human biological aspects in order to developnew molecular tools for future application in forensics.
These include among others ﬁnding genetic markers as-
sociated to visible traits and bio-geographic markers.
However, research focuses not only on identifying bio-
markers but moreover on understanding the biological
processes that create marker values.
The successful candidate will be involved in diﬀerent
projects related to the analysis of population data cur-
rently obtained with genome-wide SNP microarrays by
FMB and its collaborators; furthermore, he/she will
collaborate with other departments at Erasmus MC
and our worldwide study partners. Main research will
be based on quantifying the amount of population dif-
ferentiation, ascertaining suitable markers for detect-
ing population diﬀerentiation and developing new al-
gorithms for predicting population ancestry from the
data. In addition the candidate may be involved in the
various ongoing projects to identify the genetic basis of
human visible traits and their predictions. He/she must
have a strong background in theoretical population ge-
netics, preferentially human, and/or in bioinformatics.
Programming skills on either C++, Java or R are essen-
tial, as well as knowledge to create and manage large
databases. Previous experience with analyzing dense
SNP microarray data would be highly desirable.
Erasmus MC is situated in Rotterdam, the second
largest city of the Netherlands. Rotterdam is a cos-
mopolitan city with a large number of immigrants from
all around the world; it is situated South-West of the
Netherlands and it is well connected by road, sea and
airplane to all Europe.
Send CV, publication list, 3 reference ad-
dresses, motivation letter to: Prof. M. Kayser,
m.kayser@erasmusmc.nl till 4 weeks after appearance
of this advert, for more information: Dr. Oscar Lao,
o.laogrueso@erasmusmc.nl”
Thank you very much in advance for all your help.
Best regards,
Oscar Lao
Oscar Lao <o.laogrueso@erasmusmc.nl >
ETH Zurich TheoreticalEvolution
The Evolutionary Ecology group of ETH Z¨ urich &
EAWAG is oﬀering a
Postdoc Position in Theoretical Evolutionary EcologyJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 73
We are seeking a postdoc to work on the topic of
symbiont-mediated coevolution. There is increasing
evidence that microbial endosymbionts play a crucial
role in host-parasite coevolution. Symbionts have been
shown to protect their hosts against parasites or to al-
ter the speciﬁcity of host-parasite interactions. These
aspects are not captured by existing models of host-
parasite coevolution. The goal of this project is to de-
velop new models that incorporate eﬀects of symbionts
on the reciprocal selection between hosts and parasites
to achieve a conceptual understanding of the coevolu-
tionary dynamics in such systems. A convenient exper-
imental system to test predictions from these models is
available in the group (aphids, their bacterial symbionts
and aphid parasitoids).
This position is funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and is available for 2 years. The suc-
cessful candidate will be working in the Evolutionary
Ecology group led by Christoph Vorburger ( http://-
www.evec.ethz.ch ). This group is associated with the
Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH Z¨ urich, Switzer-
land ( http://www.ibz.ethz.ch ), as well as the Depart-
ment of Aquatic Ecology at EAWAG, the Swiss Federal
Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology ( http://-
www.eawag.ch ). These institutions oﬀer an excellent
work environment and ample opportunities for collabo-
ration, particularly with the Theoretical Biology group
of Prof. Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer ( http://www.tb.ethz.ch )
and the host-parasite group of Prof. Jukka Jokela
(http://homepages.eawag.ch/˜jokelaju/ ).
A PhD is required for this position. Candidates should
have experience using mathematical modeling and com-
puter simulation to study ecological and evolutionary
problems. The expected starting date for this position
is 1 October 2010, but this can be negotiated.
Please send a letter of application, curriculum vi-
tae, publication list, and the names and contact de-
tails of three academic references as a single PDF
ﬁle to Sandra Isenring, Human Resources, recruit-
ing@eawag.ch, indicating reference number 104403.
Deadline for applications is July 15, 2010. For enquiries
about this position please contact Christoph Vorburger
(christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch).
We are looking forward to your application.
Christoph Vorburger SNF F¨ orderungsprofessor f¨ ur
Evolution¨ are ¨Okologie Institut f¨ ur Integrative Biologie
ETH Z¨ urich & EAWAG ¨Uberlandstrasse 133 Postfach
611 8600 D¨ ubendorf SWITZERLAND
oﬃce: BU-G13 phone: +41 44 823 5196 fax: +41 44 823
5028 christoph.vorburger@eawag.ch vorburgc@ethz.ch
www.evec.ethz.chChristoph.Vorburger@eawag.ch
Finland 2 MolecularSystematics
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the newly
funded project “Diversiﬁcation of plant-feeding insects
over millions of years: what is the role of dramatic cli-
mate changes?” (funding from the Kone Foundation)
headed by Niklas Wahlberg (University of Turku, Fin-
land) and Tommi Nyman (University of Eastern Fin-
land). A strong background in molecular systematics is
required for both positions. The positions are available
for one year starting in September 2010, with a possibil-
ity to extend for a second and third year. Salary will be
2100euro per month (non-negotiable) paid as a tax free
stipend up to 18,800euro per year, with 6400euro per
year subject to taxes (in practice, about 1900euro per
month net income). One postdoc will work in Turku,
Finland, the other in Joensuu, Finland, with active in-
teraction planned between research groups.
The postdoc in Turku will work in the research group of
Niklas Wahlberg ( http://nymphalidae.utu.ﬁ ), expand-
ing the work on Nymphalidae butterﬂies to other lep-
idopteran groups (Geometridae and Noctuoidea). The
major focus of this postdoc will be to generate new
molecular data for geometrid moths, assist in generat-
ing molecular data for noctuids, and take responsibil-
ity in analyzing resulting data using phylogenetic meth-
ods. The candidate should particularly be familiar with
methods used to analyze changes in rates of diversiﬁ-
cation over evolutionary time (e.g., with algorithms in
programs such as SymmeTree and Medusa). Interested
persons should send their CV, a statement of why they
are interested, and contact information of two refer-
ences to Niklas Wahlberg (niklas.wahlberg@utu.ﬁ) by
the 31 July 2010.
The postdoc in Joensuu will work in the research group
of Tommi Nyman ( www.joensuu.ﬁ/biologia/nyman ),
and focus on the diversiﬁcation history of sawﬂies (the
mostly herbivorous basal grade of Hymenoptera). The
ﬁrst task of this postdoc will be to increase the number
of easily ampliﬁable nuclear genes to be used for phylo-
genetic and timing of diversiﬁcation analyses. The can-
didate should be familiar with whole-genome databases,
publicly available EST libraries, primer design, and lab
practices when developing new markers. The candi-
date will be expected to generate new molecular data
for sawﬂies, and to take responsibility for analyzing the74 EvolDir June 1, 2010
resulting data using phylogenetic methods. Interested
persons should send their CV, a statement of why they
are interested, and contact information of two refer-
ences to Tommi Nyman (tommi.nyman@uef.ﬁ) by the
31 July 2010.
The project will facilitate numerous comparative anal-
yses that will shed light on common patterns in the
evolutionary radiations of two species-rich and ecolog-
ically important insect herbivore taxa. Both research
groups are young, dynamic, and innovative; a perfect
opportunity to take advantage of a robust background
knowledge to ﬁnd something new and exciting for sci-
ence in a collegial atmosphere!
– Niklas Wahlberg Academy Research Fellow Labora-
tory of Genetics Department of Biology University of
Turku 20014 Turku FINLAND
Phone: +358 2 333 5569 Fax: +358 2 333 6680 Skype:
niklas w2
Nymphalidae Systematics Group: http://-
nymphalidae.utu.ﬁ niklas.wahlberg@utu.ﬁ
France Microme PathwayCuration
European MICROME project Post Doctoral Position
in France.
- Context: GENOSCOPE is both the French National
Genome Centre, now part of the Genomic Institute
of the Commissariat ` a l’Energie Atomique (CEA), as
well as an independent research institute dedicated to
high-throughput studies in biology, bioinformatics and
systems biology. One of our research areas is that of
prokaryote metabolism, including the study of bacterial
communities, the search for novel enzymatic functions,
metabolic reprogramming, and modelling. CEA is in-
volved in the European MICROME project which be-
gan in December 2009 ( http://www.microme.eu ). This
project aims to extend the scope of microbial genome
annotation from functional assignment at the gene
level, to the systematic generation of pathway assem-
blies and genome-scale metabolic models. Microme will
provide a robust, scalable infrastructure integrating a
curated repository of reference pathways with genome-
scale constraint-based models and downstream applica-
tions in comparative genomics and biotechnology.
- Functions and responsabilities: CEA is seeking to re-
cruit a scientiﬁc curator for a demanding role in the as-
signment of functional Gene-Protein-Reaction (GPR)annotation, as well as the curation of metabolic path-
ways from reference organisms. In the ﬁrst phase of
the project Microme will be populated with reference
data available from existing resources. Following this,
all metabolic pathways of 4 reference bacterial genomes
will be checked, corrected and completed as necessary.
The curator will contribute to this work as well as to
the expert curation of reference pathways across the
full spectrum of species covered by Microme. He or
she will work closely with other members of the MI-
CROME consortium (of which there are 14), particu-
larly with the Swiss-Prot group at the Swiss Institute
of Bioinformatics (SIB) and with partners at the Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute (EBI).
- Qualiﬁcations and experience: A university degree
in life sciences and a broad knowledge in biochem-
istry and/or enzymology, and/or molecular biology are
the minimum requirements. A higher degree (such as
MSc/PhD) and/or relevant post-graduate experience
are highly desirable. Previous experience in database
curation is advantageous but not essential.Experience
in using biological databases and sequence analysis
tools is desirable. The successful candidate must be
detail-oriented and must be able to quickly and ac-
curately interpret scientiﬁc literature. The position
requires excellent communication and organizational
skills in order to interact well under time pressure
within a team of software developers and biologists and
with external partners.
- Job conditions: This position is oﬀered in the context
of a European project for an initial period of one year,
which may be renewed twice. Depending on the back-
ground and experience of the successful candidate, the
monthly salary will be between 2400 to 2900 euros.
Interested candidates should send a letter of mo-
tivation, and a CV to: cmedigue@genoscope.cns.fr
anne.morgat@isb-sib.ch The closing date is 16h May
2010.
vallenet@genoscope.cns.fr
GhentU SystemsBiology
Postdoc position in Systems Biology
The Division of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology at
the VIB Department of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent
University invites applications for an Expert Scientist
position in the ﬁeld of Computational Systems Biology.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 75
We seek highly-motivated individuals with an interest
in developing novel algorithms and software tools for
the integration of high-throughput genomic data and
the inference and modeling of regulatory networks. The
ideal candidate should hold a doctoral degree in a rel-
evant ﬁeld (physics, computer science, applied mathe-
matics, engineering or life sciences), with several years
of postdoctoral experience, and have a proven record of
its application for the life sciences.
Major duties include:
- Responsible for the functioning of a small group of re-
searchers (PhD students and postdocs). - Develop new
and innovative (breakthrough) projects in line with the
strategic plan of the Department and VIB. - Provide
scientists in the Department and VIB with transfer of
in-depth knowledge. - Transfer science into publica-
tions in high impact journals. - Detect potential tech-
nology transfer possibilities.
The position will initially be available for 2 years
(starting September 1st 2010), with the possibility
of a 3 year extension depending on positive evalua-
tion. For further information please consult our home-
page ( http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/ ) or contact
the Scientiﬁc Director Prof. Dr. Yves Van de Peer
(yves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.be).
Applications including a motivation letter, CV, list of
publications, names and contact information of three
references and a research proposal (2-3 pages) should
be sent to Prof. Dr. Yves Van de Peer before July 1st
2010.
– Yves Van de Peer, PhD.
Professor in Bioinformatics and Genome Biology Asso-
ciate Department Director, VIB Department of Plant
Systems Biology Group Leader Bioinformatics and Sys-
tems Biology Ghent University Technologiepark 927 B-
9052 Ghent Belgium
Phone: +32 (0)9 331 3807 Cell Phone: +32
(0)476 560 091 Fax: +32 (0)9 331 3809 email:
yves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.be
http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/ Yves Van de Peer
<yves.vandepeer@psb.vib-ugent.be >
HatﬁeldMarineCenter
GenomicDiversityWhales
Postdoctoral Position in ’Genomic Diversity of Endan-gered Whales’, Marine Mammal Institute and Depart-
ment of Fisheries, Wildlife and Conservation Biology,
Oregon State University
The Marine Mammal Institute oﬀers a full-time (1.0
FTE), 12-month, ﬁxed-term position as a Postdoc-
toral Scholar in the Cetacean Conservation and Ge-
netic Laboratory, under the direction of Prof. Scott
Baker. The successful candidate will work collabora-
tively with the senior scientist and graduate students
in developing methods for ’reduced representation’, ge-
nomic sequencing of individual right whales using Il-
lumina (short-read, pair-end reads) or similar next-
generation technologies. The project requires labora-
tory skills for preparing genomic DNA for the reduced-
representation sequencing and bioinformatics skills for
de novo assembling and alignment of orthologous con-
tigs. The resulting high-resolution, ’genomic proﬁles’
will be used to estimate the eﬀective size of this criti-
cally endangered population and to identify individuals
harboring unique genetic diversity or that might repre-
sent currently unknown subpopulations. To avoid de-
pletion of valuable tissue samples, the project will eval-
uate the use of Whole Genome Ampliﬁcation (WGA)
in preparation for the genomic sequencing. In addition
to the primary research responsibilities, duties will in-
clude mentoring of graduate students, preparation of
manuscripts for publication and the organization and
curation of large datasets. The applicant is required
to have a Ph.D. in biological sciences with expertise in
population genetics, molecular ecology or bioinformat-
ics. Experience with the Linux operating system and
computer programming is desirable.
Salary will be commensurate with experience and there
is potential for annual renewal depending on funding.
To apply for this position: please send (by email, with
subject header “Genomic diversity postdoc applica-
tion”) a cover letter describing previous training and
research interests, a CV, copies of publications and the
names and contact information for 3 professional refer-
ences to:
Sheri Woods OSU Marine Mammal Institute Hatﬁeld
Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive
Newport, OR 97365
Email: sheri.woods@oregonstate.edu Web site: http:/-
/mmi.oregonstate.edu/ Closing date: June 15, 2010 or
until the position is ﬁlled Position available July 1, 2010
agajoh@oregonstate.edu76 EvolDir June 1, 2010
HatﬁeldMarineCenter
WhaleGenomicDiversity
Postdoctoral Position in ’Genomic Diversity of Endan-
gered Whales’, Marine Mammal Institute and Depart-
ment of Fisheries, Wildlife and Conservation Biology,
Oregon State University
The Marine Mammal Institute oﬀers a full-time (1.0
FTE), 12-month, ﬁxed-term position as a Postdoc-
toral Scholar in the Cetacean Conservation and Ge-
netic Laboratory, under the direction of Prof. Scott
Baker. The successful candidate will work collabora-
tively with the senior scientist and graduate students
in developing methods for ’reduced representation’, ge-
nomic sequencing of individual right whales using Il-
lumina (short-read, pair-end reads) or similar next-
generation technologies. The project requires labora-
tory skills for preparing genomic DNA for the reduced-
representation sequencing and bioinformatics skills for
de novo assembling and alignment of orthologous con-
tigs. The resulting high-resolution, ’genomic proﬁles’
will be used to estimate the eﬀective size of this criti-
cally endangered population and to identify individuals
harboring unique genetic diversity or that might repre-
sent currently unknown subpopulations. To avoid de-
pletion of valuable tissue samples, the project will eval-
uate the use of Whole Genome Ampliﬁcation (WGA)
in preparation for the genomic sequencing. In addition
to the primary research responsibilities, duties will in-
clude mentoring of graduate students, preparation of
manuscripts for publication and the organization and
curation of large datasets. The applicant is required
to have a Ph.D. in biological sciences with expertise in
population genetics, molecular ecology or bioinformat-
ics. Experience with the Linux operating system and
computer programming is desirable.
Salary will be commensurate with experience and there
is potential for annual renewal depending on funding.
To apply for this position: please send (by email, with
subject header “Genomic diversity postdoc applica-
tion”) a cover letter describing previous training and
research interests, a CV, copies of publications and the
names and contact information for 3 professional refer-
ences to:
Sheri Woods OSU Marine Mammal Institute Hatﬁeld
Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science DriveNewport, OR 97365
Email: sheri.woods@oregonstate.edu Web site: http:/-
/mmi.oregonstate.edu/ Closing date: June 15, 2010 or
until the position is ﬁlled Position available July 1, 2010
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
IowaStateU EvolBiology
ISU is soliciting applications for a post-doctoral posi-
tion for a scientist interested both in research and in
pedagogy. This is a split position, about half “scientiﬁc
pedagogy”, and the remainder more traditional scien-
tiﬁc research in a host laboratory. The latter can be
with any faculty member at ISU willing to host the
post-doc. The formal ad follows:
Science Teaching Fellow
The Howard Hughes Program for Innovation in Under-
graduate Science Education at Iowa State University in-
vites applications for two Post-doctoral Science Teach-
ing Fellow positions in the ﬁelds of Biology and Chem-
istry. Speciﬁc responsibilities of these grant-funded po-
sitions will include working in coordination with science
faculty to identify speciﬁc learning goals for core un-
dergraduate courses, decide on assessments of student
progress toward these goals, and develop and prototype
innovative in-class and out-of-class course activities and
laboratory materials to promote student learning. Fel-
lows will have the opportunity to join a research group,
providing additional opportunities for scholarship, pub-
lication, and professional development in the sciences.
ISU is located in a vibrant college town and is commit-
ted to excellence and world-class diversity.
Qualiﬁed candidates must have a Ph.D. in the biolog-
ical sciences, chemistry, or science education; excellent
organizational and interpersonal communication skills;
teaching experience; and have the potential for con-
tributing to science education scholarship and research.
To apply, send the following to cesmeestaﬀ@iastate.edu:
a cover letter brieﬂy summarizing qualiﬁcations, cur-
riculum vitae, a statement of scholarly interests and
expertise, and contact information for three references.
For questions regarding this position, please contact
Prof. Ogilvie at cogilvie@iastate.edu. Review of ap-
plications will begin on June 28, 2010 and will continue
until the position is ﬁlled.
Applications from women and members of under rep-
resented groups are strongly encouraged. Iowa StateJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 77
University is an EO/AA employer.
Jonathan F. Wendel, Professor and Chair De-
partment of Ecology, Evolution, & Organis-
mal Biology, Iowa State University Ames, IA
50011 Voice (515) 294-7172; FAX 515-294-1337;
jfw@iastate.edu <mailto:jfw@iastate.edu > http://-
www.eeob.iastate.edu/faculty/WendelJ/ (Personal
home page) http://www.eeob.iastate.edu/ (Depart-
ment home page)
“Wendel, Jonathan F [EEOBS]” <jfw@iastate.edu >
MaxPlanckTubingen Bioinformatics
PhD and postdoc positions in bioinformatics
New sequencing technologies are revolutionizing both
bottom-up and top- down approaches in biology. The
Weigel lab has been a leading early adopter of these
technologies and was one of the ﬁrst in Europe to exten-
sively exploit the Illumina sequencing platform (since
2007). We have developed a variety of analysis tools
based on our SHORE pipeline, and are using these
for diverse applications, from genome sequencing and
epigenetic proﬁling to transcriptome and transcription
factor binding studies, in bacteria, animals and plants.
Two positions are available both for developing new al-
gorithms and strategies for primary analysis of second-
and soon third-generation sequencing technologies, and
for using these data to study a wide array of biologi-
cal questions. The ﬂagship project in this area is the
1001 Genomes project for Arabidopsis thaliana ( http:/-
/1001genomes.org ), which we have initiated and for
which we have already delivered over 80 genomes.
We are also taking a leading role in having the genomes
of several members of the Brassicaceae, to which the
model plant Arabidopsis thaliana belongs, sequenced.
Our ﬁrst eﬀorts in this area resulted in reference genome
sequences for Arabidopsis lyrata and Capsella rubella.
One position is available for comparative genomics
studies that will take advantage of these data sets.
Finally, automated image analyses are beginning to
play an important role in high-throughput phenotyp-
ing projects aimed at linking genotypic to phenotypic
diversity. One position is available in this area.
Candidates will have knowledge and interest in se-
quence and genome analyses, and experience in pro-
gramming (PERL/PYTHON, Java, SQL, C/C++) and
in the use of Linux OS.We are working closely with other groups in T¨ ubingen
that are primarily informatically oriented. These in-
clude Daniel Huson at the University T¨ ubingen, Gun-
nar R¨ atsch at the Friedrich Miescher Laboratory and
Bernhard Sch¨ olkopf at the Max Planck Institute for
Biological Cybernetics on the same campus, as well as
Karsten Borgwardt, who heads a departmental research
group jointly sponsored with Bernhard Sch¨ olkopf. Our
work in this and other areas routinely results in high-
proﬁle publications (e.g., Maizel et al., Science 2005;
Wigge et al., Science 2005; Clark et al., Science 2007;
Sureshkumar et al., Science 2009; Wang et al., Cell
2009; Ossowski et al., Science 2010; Todesco et al.,
Nature in press), and presents extraordinary opportu-
nities for talented and ambitious students and post-
docs. Additional information on the group, the in-
stitute, and T¨ ubingen can be found on our website
(http://weigelworld.org ).
Please send applications, with a statement of pur-
pose, names of references, and the subject line
<bioinformatics posting >to
Detlef Weigel
Director, MPI for Developmental Biology
weigel@tue.mpg.de
Detlef Weigel <detlef.weigel@tuebingen.mpg.de >
MiamiU InsectEvodevo
Postdoctoral position in insect evolutionary develop-
mental biology at Miami University
A full-time NSF-funded postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the Tomoyasu lab, Miami University of Ohio.
Our research focus is to understand how changes in
patterning mechanisms have contributed to the evolu-
tion of morphological diversity by using insect wings as
a model system. The researcher will study wing devel-
opment (with a focus on a Hox gene Ultrabithorax) in
the red ﬂour beetle (Tribolium castaneum), by using
a combination of transgenic and gene knockdown tech-
niques. Visit our website for more information ( http:/-
/web.me.com/tomoyasu/lab/home.html )
The successful candidate must have strong technical
skills in molecular biology. Experience in Drosophila
genetics is preferred. Review of applications will begin
June 14, 2010 and continue until position is ﬁlled. One-
year appointment with potential for renewal for up to78 EvolDir June 1, 2010
four years. Start date is September 1, 2010.
Send an application package via e-mail or mail (a cover
letter detailing experience, CV, and contact informa-
tion for three references) to Dr. Yoshinori Tomoyasu,
Department of Zoology, Miami University, Oxford OH
45056 Email: tomoyay@muohio.edu
Miami University is an Equal Opportunity/ Aﬃrmative
Action Employer.
Yoshinori Tomoyasu Ph.D Assistant Professor De-
partment of Zoology Miami University 252 Pearson
Hall Oxford OH 45056 Tel: 513-529-3126 http://-
web.me.com/tomoyasu/lab/home.html Yoshi Tomoy-
asu<tomoyay@muohio.edu >
Netherlands
EvolutionaryPopulationDynamics
POST-DOC POSITION
IN POPULATION ECOLOGY / EVOLUTIONARY
ECOLOGY (m/f)
Job description: The post-doc position is part of the
NWO-VICI project Adapting to a warmer world: phe-
nology, physiology and ﬁtness. In this project, we
study selection on phenotypic plasticity in timing of
reproduction in great tits in relation to global cli-
mate change. There are ﬁve integrated subprojects
ranging from quantitative genetics, population dynam-
ics and reproductive physiology to genomics. Four of
these subprojects are underway and we are now look-
ing for a post-doctoral candidate for the ﬁfth subpro-
ject on population dynamics. This project will be car-
ried out in collaboration with Prof Bernt-Erik Saether
(NTNU, Trondheim, Norway) and Dr Stephanie Jenou-
vrier (CNRS, France & WHOI, USA).
Project description: The aim of the project is to de-
velop an eco-evolutionary population dynamic model
for the great tit to predict the eﬀects of climate change
on population viability. We will use climate projections
from selected Atmosphere-Ocean General Circulation
Models (AOGCMs) for a range of Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios to predict
the phenology of the birds (taking evolutionarily pro-
cesses into account) and of their prey (taking ecologi-
cal processes into account). The resulting phenological
(mis)match will aﬀect demographic rates and thereby
population viability. Ultimately, we will calculate the
critical rate of climate change that populations can copewith.
Requirements: We are looking for an enthusiastic can-
didate with a PhD in Population Ecology, Evolution-
ary Ecology or Animal Ecology and with mathematical
modelling and statistical skills. A limited amount of
ﬁeldwork may be part of the project.
Appointment: The appointment will be on a tempo-
rary basis for a maximum of 2 years. The gross salary
starts at EUR 2.861,- per month, scale 10.4, Collective
Agreement for Dutch Universities (CAO-Nederlandse
Universiteiten), excluding 8% holiday pay and a year-
end bonus. We oﬀer an extensive package of fringe ben-
eﬁts.
Information: Additional information about this po-
sition is available upon request from Prof. Marcel
E. Visser (m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl or +31-26-4791253),
head of department Animal Ecology. More informa-
tion about the NIOO can be found on our website
(www.nioo.knaw.nl ).
Applications: Please send your application including
complete curriculum vitae and names of three ref-
erees to Prof. Marcel E. Visser at NIOO-KNAW,
P.O. Box 40, 6666 ZG Heteren, The Netherlands or
g.giesen@nioo.knaw.nl. The closing date for applica-
tion is 9 June 2010, and the interviews will take place
at the end of June.
Prof. Dr Marcel E. Visser Head of Department Ani-
mal Ecology Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-
KNAW) P.O. Box 40 6666 ZG Heteren The Netherlands
Phone: +31-26-4791253 Fax: +31-26-4723227 E-mail:
m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl
Website: www.nioo.knaw.nl Personal page:
www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/mvisser “Visser, Marcel”
<M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl >
Netherlands GeneSpread
PostDoc position - Spatial Modelling
Modelling the ecological implications of the spread of
genes from transgenic crop into wild relatives
Project information: In order to assess the ecological
implications associated with the introduction of trans-
genic crops the Dutch Science Foundation (NWO) has
launched the focal programme Ecology Regarding Ge-
netically Modiﬁed Organisms (ERGO). The project
“Introgression of crop (trans-)genes into wild rela-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 79
tives: hybrid ﬁtness, background selection and hitch-
hiking” (for more info see vacancies at www.rug.nl/-
biol/theobio ) is a joint eﬀort of the Universities of
Groningen (Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Studies,), Amsterdam (Institute for Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Dynamics) and Wageningen (Laboratory for
Plant Breeding,). The project comprises both various
experimental studies (in which the wild lettuce species
Lactuca serriola is used as a model) and a theoretical
approach. This job oﬀer concerns the subproject “The
potential spread of crop genes in a crop/wild system:
analysis and modelling of an invasive process.” It is
the continuation of a previous project (for more info see
vacancies at www.rug.nl/biol/theobio ) and the models
developed in this earlier project should serve as a point
of departure.
Project description: Computer models will be devel-
oped for the spatial dispersal of transgenes (through
pollen, seed, or vegetatively) in wild populations. The
main objective is to predict the dispersal pattern and
invasion prospects of a transgene on basis of the genet-
ics and life history of the plant species involved. The
potential eﬀect of transgenes on dispersal characteris-
tics will receive special attention. Model development
will strongly reﬂect the developments in the related
projects. The models developed in various subprojects
will be integrated and validated with existing data, in-
cluding those generated on L. serriola.
Proﬁle: PhD with knowledge of population biology,
population genetics and modelling. Extensive expe-
rience with programming and computer simulations.
Good communication skills for interaction within a mul-
tidisciplinary programme.
Renumeration: Depending on age and experience, the
gross salary per month will range between ? 2861 and
? 3088. Duration of the contract: 2.5 years (with an
evaluation after the ﬁrst year).
Location: Theoretical Biology Group at the Centre
for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies (CEES) of the
University of Groningen (The Netherlands). The group
develops theory in two major research areas: evolu-
tionary ecology and self-organization. Current research
projects focus on evolutionary game theory, life his-
tory theory, evolutionary immunology, kin selection,
sex determination, sex allocation, sexual selection, sex-
ual conﬂict, metapopulation genetics, sympatric speci-
ation, allometric scaling laws, resource and interference
competition, host-parasite co-evolution, and the emer-
gence of social structure. It oﬀers a stimulating and
exiting environment for doing research
Further information: Prof. Dr. Franjo Weissing
(f.j.weissing@rug.nl; Tel: +31 50 363 2131) and Prof.Dr. Kuke Bijlsma (r.bijlsma@rug.nl; Tel: +31 50 363
2117).
Application: To apply for this position, send your ap-
plication (including letter of motivation, detailed CV,
PDFs of three most relevant publications, and the
names and email addresses of three potential referees)
in electronic form before 1 July to the oﬃce manager of
the Theoretical Biology Group, Hinke Tjoelker (theo-
bio@rug.nl). Please include the text ’ERGO PostDoc’
in the subject line of your email.
joke.bakker@rug.nl
NewYorkU
EvolutionarySystemsBiology
Postdoctoral Researcher, Siegal Lab, New York Univer-
sity
A postdoc position is available in Mark Siegal’s lab
at NYU’s Center for Genomics and Systems Biology.
The Siegal lab uses a variety of experimental and com-
putational approaches to understand the causes and
consequences of phenotypic robustness. The success-
ful candidate will work on an NIH-funded project to
dissect genetic and environmental sources of variation
in yeast cell morphology, using high-throughput ﬂuores-
cence microscopy and automated image analysis. The
postdoc will also have the opportunity to pursue inde-
pendent research related to this work.
The Center for Genomics and Systems Biology is a
dynamic and interactive research environment, with a
unique concentration of labs investigating questions at
the intersection of functional genomics and evolution.
NYU is located in the wonderful Greenwich Village
neighborhood of New York City.
Applicants should be motivated, creative and collegial.
Prior experience with relevant experimental methods
(yeast molecular genetics, microscopy, image analysis)
is advantageous. Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
To apply please email Mark Siegal <mark.siegal AT
nyu.edu >with CV, a list of references and a brief state-
ment of research experience and interests. New York
University is an equal opportunity employer.
Mark L. Siegal Assistant Professor Center for Ge-
nomics and Systems Biology Department of Biology
New York University 100 Washington Square East New
York, NY 10003 http://homepages.nyu.edu/˜ms413180 EvolDir June 1, 2010
mark.siegal@nyu.edu
NorthCarolinaStateU
StatisticalGenetics Bioinformatics
A full-time statistician position and multiple postdoc
positions are available in Bioinformatics Research Cen-
ter at North Carolina State University.
The Statistician position is supported by a large scale
multiple year pharmacometabolomics network spon-
sored by NIH. The statistician is expected to perform
statistical and bioinformatics data analysis on the re-
search projects in the network, and interact closely
with network personnel in data analysis and inter-
pretation. Candidates for the position need to have
a Ph.D. or M.S. in statistics, biostatistics or bioin-
formatics, and have extensive experience in statisti-
cal data analysis and consulting. Good communica-
tion skills are essential. The position carries com-
petitive salary and fringe beneﬁts. Applicants should
send a cover letter, CV and names of three referees
to Prof. Zhao-Bang Zeng, Bioinformatics Research
Center, North Carolina State University, Raleigh NC
27695-7566, zeng@statgen.ncsu.edu. Review of appli-
cations will begin immediately, and continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
Multiple postdoc positions are available to perform
research in statistical genetics and bioinformatics in
Bioinformatics Research Center at North Carolina
State University. The positions are supported by a ﬁve-
year NIEHS training grant in bioinformatics. Postdoc
can work with any faculty in the training grant with
research interests and projects ranging from statistical
genetics, molecular evolution, QTL mapping, associ-
ation mapping, microarray data analysis, proteomics,
metabolomics, and systems genetic study. Candidates
for the positions need to have Ph.D. and be U.S. cit-
izen or permanent resident. Applicants should send a
cover letter, statement of research, CV and names of
three referees to Prof. Zhao-Bang Zeng, Bioinformat-
ics Research Center, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh NC 27695-7566, zeng@statgen.ncsu.edu.
Consult http://bioinformatics.ncsu.edu/ for informa-
tion about the Bioinformatics Research Center at North
Carolina State University.
zhao.bang.zeng@gmail.comQueenMaryULondon
CulturalEvolution
Postdoctoral research opportunity
Cultural Evolution Lab, School of Biological and Chem-
ical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London
Internationally competitive post-doctoral candi-
dates interested in conducting research in the ﬁeld
of human cultural evolution are encouraged to
contact Dr Alex Mesoudi (a.mesoudi@qmul.ac.uk
<mailto:a.mesoudi@qmul.ac.uk >) to apply for ap-
propriate fellowships (e.g. Marie Curie, Newton).
Possible projects might involve any experimental or
theoretical simulations of cultural evolution, including
(but not limited to) (1) experimental simulations of
social learning biases underlying cumulative tech-
nological evolution; (2) agent-based modelling of
culturally transmitted health-related behaviours such
as smoking, obesity and suicide; (3) experimental
simulations of cultural group selection using economic
games. See publications at http://sites.google.com/-
site/amesoudi2/publications for further research
areas.
–
Alex Mesoudi, PhD Lecturer in Psychology Bi-
ological and Experimental Psychology Group
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen
Mary, University of London Mile End Road, Lon-
don E1 4NS United Kingdom Tel: (+044) 020
7882 7486 Email: a.mesoudi@qmul.ac.uk Web-
site: http://sites.google.com/site/amesoudi2/
a.mesoudi@qmul.ac.uk
QueenMaryULondon Mimicry
Postdoctoral research opportunities
Queen Mary University of London, Research Centre for
Psychology
Lars Chittka’s laboratory
We are seeking candidates who are internationally com-
petitive, taking into account the current stage of theirJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 81
career. The strongest candidates may be oﬀered a short
term departmental fellowship during which time they
would be expected to seek external funding, especially
for Marie-Curie postdoctoral fellowships. We will pro-
vide candidates with help in applying for appropriate
fellowships that can be hosted at QMUL.
For more information, please contact Prof Lars Chittka:
l.chittka@qmul.ac.uk
Possible projects: *
1. Cognitive* *responses of birds to warning
colours in insects* <http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/-
staﬀ/larschittka.html >
This is a collaborative project with Prof Daniel Osorio
at the University of Sussex. Many palatable animals,
for example hoverﬂies, deter predators by mimicking
well-defended insects such as wasps. However, for hu-
man observers, these ﬂies often seem to be little better
than caricatures of waspstheir visual appearance and
behaviour are easily distinguishable from those which
they are attempting to mimic. This imperfect mimicry
baﬄes evolutionary biologists, because one might ex-
pect natural selection to do a more thorough job. The
goal of this project is to test domestic chicks for two
types of cognitive processes that might explain why dis-
tinguishable mimics could enjoy increased protection
from predation. Speed-accuracy tradeoﬀs in predator
decision making might give imperfect mimics suﬃcient
time to escape, and predators under time constraint
might avoid time-consuming discriminations between
well-defended models and inaccurate edible mimics and
instead adopt a “safety ﬁrst” policy of avoiding insects
with similar appearance. Categorisation of prey types
by predators could mean that wholly dissimilar mimics
may be protected, provided they share some common
property with noxious prey. If predators use experience
with multiple prey types to learn rules rather than just
memorising the appearance of individual prey types, it
follows that diﬀerent individual predators should form
diﬀerent categories, each including separate types of
novel prey. Experimental studies to test these hypothe-
ses should be straightforward, because we can use the
relatively simple signals (e.g., striped patterns) with
which prey manipulate predator behaviour as tools for
investigating cognitive processes that underlie decision
making and object recognition in animals’ daily lives*.
*
* ** 2. Social* *learning across species boundaries* -
Lars Chittka
The study of social learning - how animals obtain in-
formation not by individual exploration of the environ-
ment, but instead by extracting information from otheranimals - has almost entirely focussed on information
transmission within species boundaries. This raises the
question on whether animals do, or should, predomi-
nantly copy from conspeciﬁcs. While genetic informa-
tion, by deﬁnition, might be transmitted only within
species, social information might transcend species
boundaries freely. Some animals might be relatively
ﬂexible in what other animals they copy, and subse-
quently evaluate the usefulness of the copied behaviour,
or the usefulness of the particular model in general.
In fact, where resources as shared (e.g. ﬂowers be-
tween generalist pollinators) or where generalist preda-
tors lurk (e.g. crocodiles in a river), picking up in-
formation from heterospeciﬁcs may be just as valuable
as from members of the same species. This raises the
question of whether conspeciﬁcs are indeed a unique
entity in social learning, or whether animals might sim-
ply learn to pick any environmental cue that facilitates
identifying salient conditions in the environment. In
this project, we will study these questions using bum-
blebee pollinators.
* 3. How* *fast should colour vision be? An electro-
physiological study of the early visual system* <http:/-
/www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/staﬀ/peterskorupski.html >
Metabolic costs are a major constraint on brain design.
How much should be invested in brain speciﬁcations?
Consider colour vision. Colour entails wavelength sen-
sitivity, which in turn requires comparisons of signals
from photoreceptors with diﬀering spectral sensitivities.
However, much of the basic business of vision (form
and motion perception) is colour-blind, relying on the
input from a single spectral class of photoreceptor (or
pooled inputs from similar classes). To a considerable
extent, chromatic and achromatic information are pro-
cessed in parallel and the chromatic channel is slower.
Since fast temporal processing is metabolically expen-
sive, the question arises of how the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
RiceU HybridizationAndAdaptation
Post-doctoral Research Associate, Role of Hybridiza-
tion in Adaptive Evolution in Plants82 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Applications are currently being solicited for a post-
doctoral research associate in the area of plant hy-
bridization and adaptive evolution at Rice University in
Houston, TX. The lab examines the evolutionary ecol-
ogy of plants and plant-animal interactions, including
hybridization, invasion biology, eﬀects of population ge-
netic diversity, and plant genome size evolution. The
associate will participate in NSF-funded research exam-
ining whether hybridization increases rates of adapta-
tion, focusing on a set of control and hybrid ﬁeld pop-
ulations of wild sunﬂowers. The associate will use SNP
genotyping and QTL mapping techniques to a) iden-
tify QTL loci controlling adaptive traits and b) test
microevolutionary hypotheses by describing changes in
QTL allele frequencies in the hybrid lineages across the
past 7 years. In addition, the associate will maintain a
ﬁeld common garden, perform laboratory experiments,
and other tasks as required by the research.
The ideal candidate would have a Ph.D. and substan-
tial experience in statistical genetics and molecular bi-
ology. Experience in ﬁeldwork is a bonus but not re-
quired (training will be provided). This is a full-time,
one-year, beneﬁts eligible position, with a second year
continent upon performance and funding. Ideal start
date: Sept 1st, 2010 (negotiable). To apply, send a sin-
gle pdf containing a short statement of interest, CV,
and contact information for three references to Diane
Hatton (rdh@rice.edu) with “Whitney Lab postdoc” as
the subject line. Applications will be reviewed start-
ing on 10 May and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled. Rice is an Equal Opportunity and Aﬃrmative
Action Employer. Rice University oﬀers staﬀ members
a comprehensive beneﬁt package.
kwhitney@rice.edu
SanDiegoStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Post-Doctoral Research Position in Plant Evolutionary
Genomics:
A National Science Foundation funded Post-Doctoral
Research Position is available in the lab of Dr. Eliz-
abeth Waters (Biology Department San Diego State
University). The research project is focused on uncov-
ering the molecular and physiological traits responsi-
ble for diﬀerences in organismal thermotolerance among
Boechera species. Research projects include transcrip-
tomics using next-generation sequencing, analysis ofphotosynthetic rate, and evolutionary analysis of pro-
tein sequences. A PhD degree in evolutionary biology,
genomics, plant biology or a related ﬁeld is required.
Experience with next generation sequence analysis is
desirable. Funding for this project is available for two
years. Applicants need to start by September 15, 2010
Applicants should apply via the SDSU Research
Foundation Human Resources web site http://-
jobsfoundation.sdsu.edu/hr . This position is Job Num-
ber: 100076. For further information please contact
ewaters@sciences.sdsu.edu.
Elizabeth Waters Associate Professor Dept. of Biol-
ogy San Diego State University San Diego, CA 92182
619-594-7036 ewaters@sciences.sdsu.edu
Elizabeth Waters <ewaters@sciences.sdsu.edu >
Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomics
A Postdoc position in evolutionary genomics is avail-
able in a collaborative project of the research groups
of Dieter Ebert (University of Basel, Switzerland) and
Christoph Haag (University of Fribourg, Switzerland).
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with
interest in evolutionary genomics. A background in
bio-informatics and genomics is helpful. The posi-
tion is funded to work on the genetic architecture of
local adaptation in Daphnia magna. The suggested
methodology includes genome scans, population sur-
veys, SNP genotyping using microarrays, and compar-
ative genomics. Previous experience with Daphnia is
not required, but excellent written, verbal, and inter-
personal skills, good work ethics, and the ability to
think creatively and critically are desired. Starting
dates are ﬂexible, from August 2010 onwards. Posi-
tions are funded for 3 years.
The position is part of the European Science
Foundation (ESF) EUROCORES EuroEEFG project
STRESSFLEA, which includes collaborators working
on Daphnia genomics in several countries.
The post-docs will be mostly located in Dieter
Ebert’s group working at Basel University, but
will frequently interact with the Haag group at
Fribourg University. Details about the groups:
http://evolution.unibas.ch/ http://www.unifr.ch/-
biol/ecology/haag/haag labhome.html Please send
your application by E-mail to Dieter Ebert (di-
eter.ebert@unibas.ch). Applications should includeJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 83
a single pdf-ﬁle containing CV, a list of publications
and a 1 page description of your research interests and
motivation. Please give names and email addresses
of two persons who are willing to write a letter of
recommendation. Applications received before 7. June
2010 will be given full consideration. Interviews will
be held in the ﬁrst half of July 2010.
Contact information:
Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, Zoolo-
gisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1, CH-4051 Basel, Switzer-
land, Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch Phone: +41-
(0)61-267 03 60 Fax +41-(0)61-267 03 62
Dr. Christoph Haag University of Fribourg Department
of Biology Chemin du Mus´ ee 10 CH-1700 Fribourg,
Switzerland Email: christoph.haag@unifr.ch Phone:
+41-(0)26-300 88 71 Fax: +41-(0)26-300 96 98
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
UArizona OriginMulticellularLife
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
Origin of multicellularity
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available im-
mediately in the laboratory of Dr. Richard E.
Michod ( http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Michod/ ) in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Arizona (Tucson, AZ; http://-
eebweb.arizona.edu/ ). We are looking for a motivated,
enthusiastic and independent individual with a strong
background in evolutionary biology and/or genomics
and molecular biology to address questions concerned
with the evolution of multicellularity, using the green
algal group Volvocales (Chlamydomonas and its multi-
cellular relatives) as a model-system. Current projects
in the lab include studying the genetic basis for the
evolution of germ-soma diﬀerentiation, measuring life
history trade-oﬀs as colony size changes and artiﬁcial
selection experiments on body size in volvocalean green
algae.
To apply, please e-mail (michod@u.arizona.edu) with
the following information: a statement detailing your
research interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, and the
names and contact information of three references.
Please describe what interests you about this post-
doctoral position and whether you have any particular
ideas that you wish to pursue.The initial appointment is for one year, with an addi-
tional two years’ funding available conditional on satis-
factory performance. The position is funded by an NSF
grant, at 35K per year (plus beneﬁts).
The University of Arizona is an EO/AA Employer.
Rick Michod <michod@u.arizona.edu >
UBern
EvolutionaryPlantEpigenetics
Postdoc position - Ecological and evolutionary plant
epigenetics*
A postdoc position is available in the Plant Ecology
lab at the Institute of Plant Sciences, University of
Bern, Switzerland, to work on ecological and evolution-
ary consequences of heritable epigenetic variation. The
postdoc will conduct quantitative genetic screenings,
selection experiments and molecular epigenetic analy-
ses to test the idea that rapid evolution by natural se-
lection is possible based on epigenetic variation only.
The project, led by Oliver Bossdorf and Markus Fis-
cher, is part of a larger, pan-European project (funded
by the European Science Foundation) on ecological
and evolutionary plant epigenetics in which we collabo-
rate with several excellent groups from other European
countries.
We are seeking an enthusiastic researcher who has a
background in genetics and a keen interest in ecology
and evolutionary biology, or vice versa. Most of the
pratical work will involve growth experiments, other
will be molecular. Part of the molecular work will be
done in a collaborating lab in Paris. There will be
a possibility for an extended research stay in Paris.
For more information about the project please contact
Oliver Bossdorf (bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch).
We are oﬀering a stimulating research environ-
ment in a young and rapidly growing lab (see
www.botany.unibe.ch/planteco ). Bern is a beautiful
city with a high quality of life. The position is for 2.5
years, with a gross salary of 80’000 – 85’000 CHF per
year.
Applicants should send an email with a statement of re-
search experience and interests, CV, and contact details
of three references to Dr. Oliver Bossdorf, Institute of
Plant Sciences, University of Bern, Altenbergrain 21,
CH-3013 Bern, Switzerland, bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch.84 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Applications will be reviewed starting 15 June 2010 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled. An ideal starting
date for the project would be 1 August 2010, or shortly
thereafter.
– Dr. Oliver Bossdorf Institute of Plant Sciences
University of Bern Altenbergrain 21 CH-3013
Bern, Switzerland Phone +41 31 631 4923 boss-
dorf@ips.unibe.ch http://sites.google.com/site/-
obossdorf/ Oliver Bossdorf <bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch >
UBristol BehaviourEvolution
A 5-year European Research Council grant “The evo-
lution of mechanisms that control behaviour” provides
funding for 3 postdoctoral researchers. The project in-
volves working with Prof Alasdair Houston (Biological
Sciences, Bristol) and Prof John McNamara (Maths,
Bristol) to develop mathematical models of the evolu-
tion of decision-making mechanisms. For further details
see
http://www.bris.ac.uk/boris/jobs/feeds/ads?ID=-
86628 Research Fellow (ref. 15406)
http://www.bris.ac.uk/boris/jobs/feeds/ads?ID=-
86630 Research Assistants (two posts) (ref. 15405)
AI Houston Professor of Theoretical Biology School Bi-
ological Sciences University of Bristol Woodland Road
Bristol BS8 1UG A.I.Houston@bristol.ac.uk
A.I.Houston@bristol.ac.uk
UBritishColumbia EvolGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow positions are available in the lab of
Dr. Keith Adams at the University of British Columbia
in the area of evolutionary genomics. My lab’s research
combines evolutionary biology with molecular genetics
to study how gene expression, alternative splicing pat-
terns, functions, structures, and sequences evolve. We
use a combination of bioinformatics analyses of large
data sets and lab experiments to answer questions and
test hypotheses. We focus on evolution and expres-
sion of duplicated genes in plants. See my web page
athttp://www.botany.ubc.ca/people/kadams.html for
a description of current research. I am looking for twopostdocs to study genomics of duplicate gene evolution,
expression, and/or alternative splicing in plants. One
position will be to study genomics of duplicate gene ex-
pression and alternative splicing in a polyploid plant us-
ing RNA-seq transcriptome proﬁling. My lab is housed
in new research building with excellent computational
infrastructure.
Candidates should have a strong background in evolu-
tionary genomics, molecular evolution, bioinformatics,
or genome analysis in any organism. Experience with
computational analysis of sequence or gene expression
data is required. Candidates with some computer pro-
gramming expertise are preferred, and experience with
next generation sequence analysis (Illumina, 454, or
SOLiD) is desirable. The positions are available im-
mediately and the preferred start date is by October 1,
2010. Funding is available for at least two years.
For more information contact Keith Adams at kei-
tha@interchange.ubc.ca Informal inquiries about the
research area and projects are welcome. To apply, send
a CV, a description of your research interests and your
Ph.D. research, and contact information for three ref-
erences to the above email address.
Keith Adams Botany Department and Centre for Plant
Research University of British Columbia Vancouver,
Canada
keitha@interchange.ubc.ca
UCaliforniaMerced
CoralReefGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN CORAL REEF
GENOMICS - UC MERCED A full-time postdoctoral
position is available as part of an ongoing NSF-funded
project to look at coral health in the Caribbean species
Montastraea faveolata and Acropora palmata using
comparative genomic and cell biology approaches. Pri-
mary research questions will focus on, but are not lim-
ited to, genomics and cell biology of coral-algal symbio-
sis, the eﬀect of ocean acidiﬁcation on corals, coral re-
sponse to disease, the role of the microbial community
in the coral holobiont. There is opportunity to work
with larval and adult stages. Field sites are located
in Puerto Morelos, Mexico, south of Cancun (Mayan
Riviera) and Bocas del Toro, Panama.
The position is available immediately. Initial appoint-
ment will be one year, with possible renewal on a year-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 85
to-year basis. Renewal of appointment is contingent
on performance and availability of funds. The position
includes postdoctoral scholar beneﬁt package. The Uni-
versity of California Merced campus is located at the
base of the Sierra Nevada foothills, near Yosemite and
the San Francisco Bay Area.
The University of California at Merced is an aﬃrmative
action/equal opportunity employer with a strong insti-
tutional commitment to the achievement of diversity
among its faculty, staﬀ, and students. Qualiﬁcations:
Ph.D. in Coral Reef Science, Genome Biology, Cell Bi-
ology, Bioinformatics or related ﬁelds. Applicants with
experience in bioinformatics and/or microarray analy-
sis are especially encouraged to apply.
Salary: Negotiable, based on the University of Cali-
fornia pay scale To Apply: Interested applicants are
required to submit 1) a cover letter 2) curriculum vitae
3) a list of three references with contact information in-
cluding mailing address, phone number and e-mail ad-
dress. For more information: Please contact M ˜A3nica
Medina (mmedina@ucmerced.edu).
Monica Medina Associate Professor School of Nat-
ural Sciences University of California, Merced 5200
North Lake Road, Merced, CA 95343 tel: 209-228-7863
fax: 209-228-4053 mmedina@ucmerced.edu http://-
sequoia.ucmerced.edu/MedinaLab/ Monica Medina
<mmedina@ucmerced.edu >
UCaliforniaSanDiego
YeastEvolution
Postdoctoral Associate Rifkin Lab University of Cali-
fornia, San Diego
A postdoctoral position is open in Scott Rifkin’s lab at
the University of California, San Diego. The position
is part of a Human Frontiers Science Program funded
project to study the evolution and variability of the
dynamics of signaling networks in yeast. The Rifkin
lab uses both yeasts and nematodes to study how the
dynamics of genetic networks generate and shape phe-
notypic variation. The successful candidate will also
be encouraged to develop independent projects in this
general area.
Applicants should have a good publication record and
strong quantitative skills. Experimental techniques
will include yeast molecular genetics, ﬂuorescence mi-
croscopy, dynamical systems modeling, and quantita-tive genetics, and experience in any of these is advan-
tageous.
The start date would ideally be in September 2010. The
initial appointment will be for 1 year and will be re-
newable for up to a total of 3 years. Salary will be
commensurate with NIH standards.
The project is a collaboration between the labs of Scott
Rifkin, Christian Landry (Univ. Laval, Quebec) and
Madan Babu (Cambridge, UK) and there will be am-
ple opportunities to interact with them and with the
strong quantitative biology community in San Diego.
To apply please email Scott Rifkin <sarifkin at
ucsd.edu >with a CV, summary of previous research
and current interests, and a list of references. Please
put “HFSP POSTDOC” in the subject line. Review of
applications will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Scott Rifkin Assistant Professor Ecology, Behav-
ior, and Evolution Division of Biology Univer-
sity of California, San Diego sarifkin atucsd.edu
http://www.biology.ucsd.edu/labs/rifkin/ Scott Rifkin
<sarifkin@ucsd.edu >
UCaliforniaSantaCruz
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral Scholar Kay Lab University of California,
Santa Cruz
A postdoc position is open in Kathleen Kay’s lab in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at UCSC to participate in research on the evolutionary
and ecological genetics of speciation in the neotropi-
cal spiral gingers. The postdoc will be involved in
the design and analysis of (1) a genetic linkage map-
ping experiment and QTL study of ﬂoral and vegetative
traits involved in reproductive isolation and reinforce-
ment in a wild plant system, and (2) a microsatellite-
based population genetic study of divergence with gene
ﬂow. SNPs have been identiﬁed for the mapping project
with Illumina sequencing, and SNP genotyping will be
outsourced. The postdoc will work collaboratively with
the PI and help oversee student assistants. The selected
candidate will have considerable intellectual input into
the development of the projects, and there are good
opportunities to develop lines of inquiry after the can-
didate’s own interests.
Minimum qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. or equivalent in Biol-
ogy, Genetics, or related ﬁeld. Expertise in one or more86 EvolDir June 1, 2010
of the following areas: evolutionary quantitative genet-
ics, QTL mapping, molecular evolution, population ge-
netics or statistical genetics.
Preferred qualiﬁcations: Preference will be given to
candidates with a track record of successful grant fund-
ing and publishing in leading journals. A strong in-
terest in the evolutionary biology of natural systems
and experience working with plants is preferred. Some
familiarity with next-generation sequencing platforms
and bioinformatic tools are deﬁnite assets. The selected
candidate will be highly motivated, have strong written
and oral communication skills, and be able to work well
both independently and as part of a small team.
Initial appointment is for one year, with reappointment
contingent upon availability of funding and a favorable
performance review. The position is available immedi-
ately, with a preferred start date no later than Septem-
ber 2010.
Salary is commensurate with qualiﬁcations and experi-
ence, according to UC pay scales. Beneﬁts are provided.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your re-
search background and interests, a curriculum vitae,
and contact information for three references by email
(in pdf format) to <kay at biology.ucsc.edu >.
Informal inquiries are welcome!
Kathleen Kay Assistant Professor Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology UC Santa Cruz Santa Cruz,
CA 95064 http://bio.research.ucsc.edu/people/kay
kay@biology.ucsc.edu
UCLondon ExcellenceFellowships
University College London - Excellence Fellowship pro-
gramme
UCL’s School of Life and Medical Sciences is launching
an Excellence Fellowship programme. The aim is to at-
tract the best early career researchers and allow them
to develop their research with the help of a generous
award. Fellowships include three years of salary cost,
funds for a PhD studentship and £50K to support re-
search costs. Applicants can come from across the life
and medical sciences, but the proposed research should
have some biomedical dimension.
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment is seeking to actively promote candidates for the
Excellence Fellowship scheme. The research of ap-plicants could fall within or complement the research
themes covered by the Department. We in particu-
lar wish to strengthen our activities in evolution and
population biology. Candidates with strong research
interests in computation biology, systems biology or in-
fection and immunity are particularly encouraged to
apply.
Expressions of interest should be directed to Dr Max
Reuter (m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk) before 2 June (the scheme
deadline is 16 June). Please include a cover letter, CV,
the names of two referees, and an outline of your re-
search proposal (2 pages maximum). The Department
will select a shortlist of candidates to provide support
in developing your project, writing the application and
preparing for interview.
The call for fellowship applications can be
found at https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/-
jobs.cgi?owner=3D5041178&ownertype=-
3Dfair&jcode=1138992 The closing date for the
full application is 16 June 2010.
For more information about UCL, please visit
- Department of Genetics, Evolution and Envi-
ronment http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee - CoMPLEX
(maths and physics in the life sciences) http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/complex - UCL Systems Biology
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/systems-biology Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London 4 Stephenson Way London NW1 2HE, UK
Phone: +44-20-76795095 (internal 25095)
http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/˜ucbtmre/Labsite/
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UCollegeLondon FlatwormEvolution
Dear colleagues,
I would be very grateful if you would bring this oppor-
tunity to the notice of anyone suitable.
A Postdoctoral Research Associate is required to work
in the laboratory of Max Telford, carrying out research
into the molecular patterning of the nervous system and
photoreceptors of the larva of the polyclad ﬂatworm
Maritigrella crozieri.
The project will make comparisons with other ciliated
marine larvae with the aim of establishing whether theyJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 87
are homologous or have evolved convergently.
The work is supported by a Leverhulme grant and is
funded for 36 months in the ﬁrst instance.
The starting date will be Sept 1st 2010.
Key Requirements
The successful applicant will have a PhD (or be working
towards a PhD) in a relevant area. The ideal candidate
will have experience in molecular developmental biol-
ogy and evolutionary biology. The successful candidate
should also be familiar with common molecular biolog-
ical techniques.
Knowledge of ﬂatworm developmental biology and phy-
logenetics would be welcome.
Further Details
Please go to... http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ Click
Here for UCL Current Vacancies
put in job code 1138745
Many thanks
Max
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department
of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, Uni-
versity College London, Darwin Building, Gower
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20
7679 2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679
7096 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/academic-staﬀ/-
telford/telford.html Telford & Littlewood: Animal
Evolution. OUP http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/-
product/9780199570300.do Files and software for
downloading:
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis.
TranslatorX: Align nt sequence according to the aa
translation.
Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y structure data in
rRNA phylogenetic analyses.
MtZoa and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution
matrices
Hacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
http://web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-
Downloads.html Xenoturbella You Tube video
http://uk.youtube.com/watch?v=yJXNcoxL2Xs The
Linnean Society of London http://www.linnean.org/
Max Telford <m.telford@ucl.ac.uk >UExeter BehaviourEvolution
School of Biosciences - Evolutionary Genetics of Be-
haviour
School of Biosciences
Evolutionary Genetics of Behaviour
Postdoctoral Research position (Ref: N2664)
Salary will be in the range £26,523 to £27,319 per an-
num
Fixed Term appointment for 3 years
The School of Biosciences, Cornwall wishes to recruit
a Postdoctoral Researcher to work in the laboratory of
Professor Allen Moore on a grant funded by the Nat-
ural Environment Research Council (NERC) from 1st
July 2010 (or as soon as possible thereafter). The suc-
cessful applicant will join a research group studying
the genetics and evolution of social behaviour. This
three-year project is concerned with investigating the
role of genetic diﬀerences between males and females in
the expression of parental care in the burying beetle,
Nicrophorus vespilloides (Walling et al. 2008 Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 105: 18430-18435).
Applicants will possess a PhD in quantitative genetics,
evolutionary biology, animal behaviour, or behavioural
ecology. The applicant should also be a conﬁdent, in-
dependent scientist with knowledge in the discipline
and of contemporary research and statistical methods
and techniques to work within established research pro-
grammes. Applicants must be able to design their own
experiments, prepare data for publication and assist in
training of graduate students.
For further information please con-
tact Professor Allen Moore, e-mail:
a.j.moore@ex.ac.uk <mailto:a.j.moore@ex.ac.uk >
or telephone (01392) 725151.
To apply, please send your CV and covering letter with
the contact details of three referees to Professor Allen
Moore, Professor of Evolutionary Genetics, School
of Biosciences, Geoﬀrey Pope Building, University
of Exeter, Stocker Road, Exeter, EX4 4QD (e-mail:
a.j.moore@ex.ac.uk <mailto:a.j.moore@ex.ac.uk >)
quoting the job reference N2664.
The closing date for completed applications is Friday
11th June 2010.88 EvolDir June 1, 2010
The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and promotes diversity in its workforce and,
whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, is
particularly keen to consider applications from groups
currently underrepresented in the workforce.
a.j.moore@exeter.ac.uk <mailto:a.j.moore@exeter.ac.uk >
Allen J. Moore Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Head
of School School of Biosciences University of Exeter Ge-
oﬀrey Pope Building Stocker Road Exeter EX4 4QD
United Kingdom
In Exeter: Tel: +44 (0)1392 725151 (PA - Amanda
Trick) Fax: +44 (0)1392 723434
In Cornwall: Tel: +44 (0)1326 255986 (PA - Sally Ben-
nett)
“Moore, Allen” <A.J.Moore@exeter.ac.uk >
UGeorgia CoralGeneticDiversity
Postdoc: Microbial Genetics and Ecology of Infectious
Disease in Caribbean Corals
A postdoctoral position is available at the University of
Georgia, working with Dr. Erin Lipp (Environmental
Health Sciences) and Dr. John Wares (Genetics), along
with other collaborators at the University of Georgia.
The project involves exploration of genetic diversity in
the Acropora palmata holobiome (coral, symbionts, and
microbial community) to better understand patterns
of infection and mortality in the endangered staghorn
coral. Salary starts at $42,000.
Applicants must have a strong background in microbi-
ology and/or genetics, in particular skills in DNA se-
quencing, data curation, and analysis. Experience with
next-generation sequence data is preferred, and we will
be looking for researchers who can work well with the
entire collaborative team.
Applications should be sent by July 17, 2010, by email
(jpwares@uga.edu) as a single PDF ﬁle that includes
cover letter, CV, and 1-2 representative publications.
We also ask that you have three letters of recommen-
dation sent by email to the same address. Additionally,
Wares and collaborator Andrew Park will be at the
Evolution meeting in Portland, Oregon and welcome
the opportunity to interview applicants in person from
June 25-29. Start date may be as early as September
1, 2010. For further information on the position, please
contact John Wares (jpwares@uga.edu) or Erin Lipp(elipp@uga.edu)
The University of Georgia is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer. Employer.
UJohannesburg
PlantDNABarcoding
Postdoctoral position: DNA barcoding of medicinal
plants in southern Africa. by Michelle van der Bank,
on April 28th, 2010
Outstanding applicants are sought for a two-year post-
doctoral position at the University of Johannesburg
(South Africa), focusing on the development of molec-
ular identiﬁcation methodology (DNA barcoding) for
southern African medicinal plants. This will include
original research, participation in the assembly and co-
ordination of large-scale international collaborations,
participating in the groups research and supervision
and mentoring of postgraduate students. The candi-
date will be based in the department of Botany & Plant
Biotechnology at the University of Johannesburg, will
have access to a molecular lab and is expected to do
ﬁeldwork in southern Africa.
Candidates must meet the following requirements:
1. Applicants must have a PhD by start date of work
(no exceptions). 2. Experienced in PCR, DNA se-
quencing, and related analytical approaches. 3. A
strong background in Plant Systematics. 4. Applicants
must possess excellent written and oral communication
skills in English. 5. Expertise in digital photography
will be an asset.
The position is available immediately.
Applicants should send a CV including a brief overview
of experience and research interests and two recent ref-
erence letters to mvdbank@uj.ac.za not later than May
20th, 2010. Review of applications will commence May
21st, 2010.
Prof. Michelle van der Bank Department of Botany
and Plant Biotechnology University of Johannesburg
PO BOX 524, Auckland Park, 2006 SOUTH AFRICA
TEL: +27 11 559 2495 FAX: +27 11 559 2411
mvdbank@uj.ac.za
“Van der Bank, Michelle” <mvdbank@uj.ac.za >June 1, 2010 EvolDir 89
ULausanne FrogSexChromosomes
A post doc position is available at the Department
of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne
(switzerland), to join a team working on the evolution
of sex-chromosomes and sex-linked genes in European
tree frogs. We presently aim at obtaining (from BAC-
and/or lambda phage libraries) X and Y sequences of
sex-linked genes in Hyla arborea and related species,
and localize these sequences on the sex chromosome.
We are looking for a candidate with a strong experience
in molecular- biology techniques and interest in theoret-
ical aspects of sex- chromosome evolution. The starting
date is ﬂexible, from August 2010 onwards. The posi-
tion is funded for 3 years.
Please send your application by E-mail to nico-
las.perrin@unil.ch, including in a single pdf-ﬁle your
CV and list of publications as well as a one page de-
scription of research interests and motivation. Please
also provide names and email addresses of two referees
who are willing to write a letter of recommendation.
We will consider applications received before June 10th
2010 and plan to organize interviews in July 2010.
References
Perrin N, 2009. Sex reversal: a fountain of youth for
sex chromosomes? Evolution 63(12), 3043-3049
Niculita-Hirzel H., St¨ ock M., Perrin N., 2008. A key
transcription cofactor on the nascent sex chromosomes
of European tree frogs (Hyla arborea). Genetics 179(3),
1721-1723.
St¨ ock M., Dubey S., Kl¨ utsch C., Litvinchuk S.N.,
Scheidt U., Perrin N., 2008. Mitochondrial and nuclear
phylogeny of circum-Mediterranean tree frogs from the
Hyla arborea group. Mol Phyl Evol 49(3), 1019-1024.
Berset-Br¨ andli L., Jaqui´ ery J., Broquet T., Ulrich Y.,
Perrin N., 2008a. Extreme heterochiasmy and nascent
sex chromosomes in European tree frogs. Proc.R.Soc.B
275(1642), 1577-1585.
Berset-Br¨ andli L., Jaqui´ ery J., Perrin N., 2007. Re-
combination is suppressed and variability reduced in a
nascent Y chromosome. J Evol Biol 20(3), 1182-8.
Nicolas.Perrin@unil.chUMaryland Computational
Comparative Phylogenetics
COMPUTATIONAL COMPARATIVE PHYLOGE-
NETICS
A postdoctoral position is available for a project that
brings computational comparative phylogenetic ap-
proaches to bear on questions in population ecology,
including the prediction of unobserved life history traits
based on phylogenetic context.
Candidates should have a background in computational
evolutionary biology, computational ecology, statistics,
or a related discipline. Requirements include 1) expe-
rience with statistical and/or mechanistic (stochastic)
modeling of continuous and/or discrete characters in
evolutionary models, 2) understanding of how compar-
ative phylogenetic methods work mathematically, and
3) strong writing skills. The project draws upon com-
piled databases of life history traits for mammals and
birds, so previous ecoinformatic research or other expe-
rience with object-oriented databases is a plus.
This position, which features both theoretical and ap-
plied components, is funded via a collaborative Depart-
ment of Defense (SERDP) research grant that seeks
to develop quantitative approaches to the establish-
ment of conservation targets for poorly known species
that are not amenable to population viability analyses.
The position will be housed in Dr. Bill Fagan’s lab
at the University of Maryland, College Park ( http:/-
/www.clfs.umd.edu/biology/faganlab/ ) with an addi-
tional opportunity to collaborate with Dr. Maile Neel
(alyxia.umiacs.umd.edu).
This postdoc position features a competitive salary and
a 24-30 month duration (depending on start date and
subject to satisfactory progress). The position is avail-
able immediately, with a preferred start no later than
1 September 2010.
To apply, please email a CV, brief statement of interest
in this position, and the names and email addresses of
three references to:
Dr. Bill Fagan bfagan@umd.edu Department of Bi-
ology 3235 Biology-Psychology Building University of
Maryland College Park, MD 20742
bfagan@umd.edu90 EvolDir June 1, 2010
UNebraska Lincoln
AphidBioinformatics
Postdoc in aphid bioinformatics
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Dr.
Jenn Brisson in the School of Biological Sciences at
the University of Nebraska, Lincoln (UNL). Our lab
uses evolutionary, genetic, developmental, and genomic
approaches to study how pea aphids produce winged
and wingless morphs. See http://biosci.unl.edu/labs/-
brisson/ for more information. The successful candi-
date will work on an NIH funded project combining
transcriptional (RNA-Seq) and metabolomic data to
examine the mechanistic basis of wing morph induc-
tion.
Candidates should have a PhD in biology or bioinfor-
matics or a related ﬁeld. Programming skills and ex-
perience with next-generation sequence data are neces-
sary. Funding for this position is available for two years,
subject to review after the ﬁrst year. Applications will
be accepted until June 25th. The start date is ﬂexible,
but would ideally be near the end of summer in 2010.
For additional information, including informal in-
quiries, please contact Jenn Brisson at jbris-
son2@unl.edu. To apply, please send a CV, short letter
of research interests and accomplishments, and contact
information for three references to jbrisson2@unl.edu.
Further information about the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences at UNL can be found at: http://-
www.biosci.unl.edu/ . The Brisson lab is a member
of the Integrative Evolutionary Biology (IEB) pro-
gram. IEB consists of an interactive group of faculty
(Zoya Avramova, Alexandra Basolo, Larry Harshman,
Eileen Hebets, Etsuko Moriyama, Hideaki Moriyama,
Jay Storz, Bill Wagner, Tony Zera, Stacey Smith) tack-
ling interesting questions in evolutionary biology us-
ing multidisciplinary approaches. As noted on its web
page, members of IEB have “diverse research interests
that include the following: physiological, biochemical
and molecular studies of life history evolution; genomic-
to-physiological investigations of complex adaptations
such as dispersal polymorphism; molecular-population-
genetic and functional studies of hemoglobin adapta-
tions in mammals; molecular evolutionary and bioin-
formatic analyses of protein functions and multi-gene
families, neurophysiological, ecological, and genetic in-vestigations of invertebrate behavior, with a special fo-
cus on sexual selection; and ecological, biochemical, and
phylogenetic investigations of metabolic pathway evo-
lution in plants and animals.” See biosci.unl.edu for
more details.
The School of Biological Sciences is located on UNL’s
City Campus in downtown Lincoln, NE. The city boasts
a budding live music and arts scene, an extensive park
system, a friendly citizenry, excellent restaurants, en-
thusiastic football fans, and a low cost of living. Lin-
coln has a population of ~260,000 and is the capital of
Nebraska. It is an hour from Omaha and three hours
from Kansas City.
jbrisson2@unl.edu
UNebraska Lincoln AphidEvolution
Postdoc in aphid evolution/development
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Dr.
Jenn Brisson in the School of Biological Sciences at
the University of Nebraska, Lincoln (UNL). Our lab
uses evolutionary, genetic, developmental, and genomic
approaches to study how pea aphids produce winged
and wingless morphs. See http://biosci.unl.edu/labs/-
brisson/ for more information. The postdoctoral
project can be tailored to the speciﬁc interests of
the successful candidate, but will focus on one or
more of the following areas: 1. transcriptomics and
metabolomics of wing induction 2. investigating the
diﬀerences in wing development between winged and
wingless morphs, 3. the role of epigenetics in the pea
aphid wing polyphenism.
Candidates should have a PhD in molecular evolu-
tion, evolutionary genetics, evo-devo, or a related ﬁeld.
Funding is available for up to three years, subject to
review after each year. Applications will be accepted
until June 25th and the start date is ﬂexible.
For additional information, including informal in-
quiries, please contact Jenn Brisson at jbris-
son2@unl.edu. To apply, please send a CV, short letter
of research interests and accomplishments, and contact
information for three references to jbrisson2@unl.edu.
Further information about the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences at UNL can be found at: http://-
www.biosci.unl.edu/ . The Brisson lab is a member
of the Integrative Evolutionary Biology (IEB) pro-
gram. IEB consists of an interactive group of facultyJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 91
(Zoya Avramova, Alexandra Basolo, Larry Harshman,
Eileen Hebets, Etsuko Moriyama, Hideaki Moriyama,
Jay Storz, Bill Wagner, Tony Zera, Stacey Smith) tack-
ling interesting questions in evolutionary biology us-
ing multidisciplinary approaches. As noted on its web
page, members of IEB have “diverse research interests
that include the following: physiological, biochemical
and molecular studies of life history evolution; genomic-
to-physiological investigations of complex adaptations
such as dispersal polymorphism; molecular-population-
genetic and functional studies of hemoglobin adapta-
tions in mammals; molecular evolutionary and bioin-
formatic analyses of protein functions and multi-gene
families, neurophysiological, ecological, and genetic in-
vestigations of invertebrate behavior, with a special fo-
cus on sexual selection; and ecological, biochemical, and
phylogenetic investigations of metabolic pathway evo-
lution in plants and animals.” See biosci.unl.edu for
more details.
The School of Biological Sciences is located on UNL’s
City Campus in downtown Lincoln, NE. The city boasts
a budding live music and arts scene, an extensive park
system, a friendly citizenry, excellent restaurants, en-
thusiastic football fans, and a low cost of living. Lin-
coln has a population of ~260,000 and is the capital of
Nebraska. It is an hour from Omaha and three hours
from Kansas City.
jbrisson2@unl.edu
UNotreDame
InvasiveSpeciesEvolution
Post-Doctorate (quantitative analysis and modeling)
Position Description: At least one postdoctoral re-
search position is available to pursue collaborative
projects involving the spread and ecological and eco-
nomic impacts of aquatic invasive species in the Lau-
rentian Great Lakes and neighboring inland water-
ways. Supported by funding from a new 5-year
NOAA-funded project and other on-going and pend-
ing projects, the postdoc housed in the Department of
Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame will re-
port to project leader David Lodge, and will collabo-
rate with risk analyst Roger Cooke (Resources for the
Future), economists Richard Jensen (UND) and David
Finnoﬀ (U Wyoming), and ecologists including Lodge
and Lindsay Chadderton (The Nature Conservancy) to
apply new tools in research at the interface of sciencewith management and policy.
Qualiﬁcations: We are seeking postdoc(s) with some
combination of the following skills and experience: pop-
ulation modeling, food web modeling, structured ex-
pert judgment, and spatial and multivariate statistics.
Screening of applicants will begin in early May. Salary
and beneﬁts will be competitive.
Contact: Applicants should consult the project ab-
stract (Research - Ecological Risk Analysis and Bioeco-
nomics), and then email (in one pdf document) a letter
describing their prior research experience and current
interests, a curriculum vitae, and the names and con-
tact information of three references to:Joanna McNulty,
Center for Aquatic Conservation, Galvin LifeScience
Center, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN
46556 (fax: 574-631-7413; email: McNulty.9@nd.edu
(with a cc to dlodge@nd.edu).
Michelle Budny <Michelle.L.Budny.4@nd.edu >
UOklahoma BiologicalStation
EvolBiology
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW - THE UNIVERSITY
OF OKLAHOMA BIOLOGICAL STATION (UOBS).
The University of Oklahoma (OU), Norman, Okla-
homa, invites applications for a Postdoctoral Fellowship
in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology to be a resident re-
search scientist based at the universitys Biological Sta-
tion (UOBS) on Lake Texoma (Texas-Oklahoma bor-
der; 2-hr drive from campus). This is a 12-month (0.80
FTE; equivalent to 9-10 mo) appointment with beneﬁts
(i.e. medical, dental), renewable on an annual basis for
up to three years. The fellow will be responsible for de-
veloping a research program in conjunction with UOBS
faculty and assisting with the educational outreach pro-
gram at the station via occasional presentations to vis-
iting groups. In addition, the fellow will be given the
opportunity to teach a two-week long (3 cr. hr.) course
at the Station during summer for extra compensation.
The targeted starting date is 1 September 2010, but is
ﬂexible. More information on UOBS and UOBS faculty
research interests can be found at http://www.ou.edu/-
uobs .Applicants should include a curriculum vitae,
reprints of representative publications, a detailed 3-5
page outline of the research to be conducted at UOBS
and arrange to have three letters of recommendation
sent on the applicants behalf. Applicants are encour-
aged to contact one or more UOBS faculty prior to sub-92 EvolDir June 1, 2010
mitting the application. All materials should be sent
electronically to Lawrence J. Weider, Director, UOBS
(ljweider@ou.edu <mailto:ljweider@ou.edu >). Appli-
cant review will begin 15 June 2010 and continue until
the position is ﬁlled. The University of Oklahoma en-
courages diversity in the workplace. The University of
Oklahoma is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity
employer.
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >
UOxford SocialEvolution
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF
OXFORD
Postdoctoral Research Assistant - Evolutionary Social
Ecology Grade 7: Salary in the range £28,983-35,646
per annum.
A postdoctoral position is available, for three years,
from 1 October 2010, to study social structure and dis-
persal in birds from an ecological and evolutionary per-
spective. The post is funded as part of an ERC Ad-
vanced Investigator grant of euro 2.5M over ﬁve years
to Prof Ben Sheldon. The post will be based in the Ed-
ward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University
of Oxford. The post- holder will study the causes and
consequences of variation in social structure. Particu-
lar emphasis will be placed on the role of dispersal, and
how this aﬀects and is aﬀected by the social structure
of the population.
A key part of the project will be to design and carry
out experiments to test how the social environment
aﬀects dispersal in both adults and young, involving
cross-fostering experiments as well as manipulations at
feeding sites during the winter. This is an exceptional
opportunity to participate in the development of a ma-
jor research project, for which extensive pilot data are
already available, and funding is guaranteed at a very
high level.
The successful candidate will have, or be about to ob-
tain, a PhD in behavioural ecology, ecology, evolution-
ary biology or a related subject and ﬁeldwork experi-
ence, preferably with birds. Candidates should have
proven skills in the use of multivariate statistics (skills
in spatial analysis, mark-recapture or network analy-
sis an advantage) and in writing and publishing papers
in leading journals in the ﬁeld. In addition, experi-
ence of working as part of a multi-disciplinary teamis desirable. The post is based in a dynamic and ex-
panding research-active institute, of c. 45 people, fully
integrated within the Department of Zoology. Fur-
ther details about the institute available at: http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/ Informal inquiries (with CV)
to Prof Ben Sheldon (ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk); start
date 1 October 2010.
Further particulars and application forms can be down-
loaded from http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs or are avail-
able from the Personnel Oﬃce, Department of Zoology,
Tinbergen Building, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3PS (tel: 01865 271190); email: recruit@zoo.ox.ac.uk
. Applications, together with CV and contact details
of three referees, an electronic copy of three publica-
tions and a cover letter explaining how the candidate
meets the selection criteria, as outlined in the further
particulars, should be sent to the above address quoting
reference number AT10016. The closing date for appli-
cations is 14th June 2010. Interviews will take place in
early July.
ben.sheldon@zoo.ox.ac.uk
USydney MathematicalBiology
*POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE IN
MATHEMATICAL BIOLOGY REFERENCE NO.
753/0310*
THE SCHOOL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLO-
GIES
The University of Sydney is Australia’s ﬁrst University
with an outstanding global reputation for academic and
research excellence, and employs over 6,800 permanent
staﬀ supporting over 46,000 students.
Funded by the Australian Research Council (ARC),
within a cross disciplinary project with the School of
Information Technologies, we are delighted to announce
an opportunity for an outstanding researcher to work
in an exciting area of mathematical biology at the Uni-
versity of Sydney.
Nothing evolves in isolation. In 150 years since the pub-
lication of Darwin’s Origin of Species our understanding
of evolution has come a huge distance, yet our under-
standing of coevolution is less developed. While there
has been a vast development in the last few decades in
phylogenetic methods, which uncover evolutionary his-
tory at the species level and above, this development
has not been paralleled in the study of how such histo-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 93
ries relate to each other for ecologically linked groups of
species, such as parasites or pathogens and their hosts.
Understanding coevolution at the macroscopic level is
the key to understanding the “big picture” of how para-
sites and pathogens coevolve with, and switch between,
their hosts.
The central aim of this project is to develop and extend
the statistical framework of coevolution at the species
level and above, to ﬁll this gap in our knowledge.
You should have a solid PhD in bioinformatics or com-
putational/theoretical biology. Your thorough under-
standing of modern statistical methods is crucial, as are
proven computational skills and biological knowledge.
Programming expertise in an object-oriented language
such as C++/Java will be highly regarded, as will pre-
vious research experience related to some or all of the
following: health, conservation/biodiversity, evolution
and/or coevolution, phylogenetics, and cophylogenet-
ics.
This is a fantastic opportunity to work in a dynamic
environment and to conduct unique research in a wide
diversity of areas as well as engaging with outstand-
ing local research and undergraduate students. You
will closely work with Associate Professor Michael
Charleston and will assist in a challenging topic that
will have major contributions to health, conservation
and biodiversity, as well to fundamental knowledge of
coevolution.
The position is full-time ﬁxed-term for up to three years
subject to the completion of a satisfactory probation
period for new appointees. Membership of a Univer-
sity approved superannuation scheme is a condition of
employment for new appointees.
Remuneration package: up to $90,055 p.a. (which in-
cludes a base salary Level A, leave loading and up to
17% employer’s contribution to superannuation)
Some assistance towards relocation cost and visa spon-
sorship may be available for the successful appointee if
required and level of appointment will be commensu-
rate with experience and qualiﬁcations.
All applications must be submitted via The Uni-
versity of Sydney careers website. Visit syd-
ney.edu.au/positions and search the reference number
for more information and to apply.
*CLOSING DATE: 16 May 2010 (11:30pm Sydney
time)*
The University is an Equal Opportunity employer com-
mitted to equity, diversity and social inclusion. Ap-
plications from equity target groups and women are
encouraged. The University reserves the right not toproceed with any appointment.
Michael Charleston <mike.charleston@gmail.com >
UTexasArlington
TransposonGenomeEvolution
Postdoctoral Position: Transposon and Genome Evolu-
tion
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Cedric
Feschotte at the University of Texas at Arlington. I am
seeking an individual with a strong interest in transpos-
able elements and genome evolution/ function to work
on an ongoing NIH-funded project investigating mam-
malian DNA transposons. This research combines ex-
perimental and computational approaches and encom-
passes a broad range of topics, including but not limited
to:
(i) Mechanisms and consequences of horizontal transfer
(e.g. Pace et al. PNAS 105:17023-17028; Gilbert et al.
2010 Nature 464: 1347-1350)
(ii) Lineage-speciﬁc ampliﬁcation and structural varia-
tion (e.g. Pace & Feschotte, Genome Res 17:422-432;
Pritham & Feschotte 2007 PNAS 104:1895-1900; Ray
et al. Genome Res 18:717-728)
(iii) Evolution and function of human transposase-
derived proteins (e.g. Cordaux et al. 2006 PNAS
103:8101-6).
For more details, visit the lab website: http://-
www3.uta.edu/faculty/cedric/ A Ph.D. is required and
strong written and oral communication skills are essen-
tial. A strong background in evolutionary/comparative
genomics and/or functional genomics (in any organ-
isms) is desirable. The initial appointment is for one
year but may be extended for at least 2 years upon mu-
tual agreement. The position is available immediately,
fully funded and open to citizens from any country.
UT Arlington is a fast-growing, comprehensive univer-
sity in the University of Texas System and has re-
cently established an exciting and interactive group
of genome biologists. See: http://biology.uta.edu/-
genome group/ The university is located in the Dallas-
Fort Worth metroplex, which features all the amenities
of a large metropolitan area with the added advantage
of a low cost of living.
To apply send a cover letter detailing previous experi-
ence and your speciﬁc interest in the position, curricu-94 EvolDir June 1, 2010
lum vitae and the names and contact information of
three references. Direct all inquiries and applications
to cedric@uta.edu
Cedric Feschotte, Ph.D Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Texas, Arlington
cedric@uta.edu
UWashington
InvertebrateTaxonomy
University of Washington and Alaska Fisheries Science
Center, Seattle, Washington: Postdoctoral Position in
Invertebrate Taxonomy
The University of Washington and Resource Assess-
ment and Conservation Engineering (RACE) Division
of NOAAs Alaska Fisheries Science Center, both based
in Seattle, Washington, are looking for a broad-based
marine invertebrate taxonomist to identify and conduct
research on the subtidal marine macroinvertebrates of
Alaska.
The RACE Division conducts bottom-trawl surveys
of the subtidal continental shelf and upper slope of
Alaskan waters. The Bering Sea shelf south of the
Bering Strait is surveyed annually and the upper slope
is surveyed biennially. The Gulf of Alaska and Aleu-
tian Islands are also surveyed biennially, alternating
regions every year. Benthic invertebrates comprise a
large proportion of the catch, especially on the Bering
Sea shelf and in the Aleutian Islands, presenting signif-
icant challenges for ﬁeld identiﬁcation. The postdoc-
toral appointee will serve an important role in increas-
ing our understanding of the diversity of invertebrate
species obtained in the surveys, enhancing the identi-
ﬁcation skills of ﬁeld ﬁsheries biologists, and provid-
ing signiﬁcant specimens to the scientiﬁc community
through the collection and identiﬁcation of specimens
serving as vouchers for catch records.
As a primary requirement, the postdoctoral appointee
will serve as lead author of an annotated checklist of the
marine macroinvertebrates of Alaska. The appointee
will also provide an annual training session for ﬁeld
biologists deploying to sea, and will be expected to
participate in at least one, annual, three-week leg of
a bottom-trawl survey, with the primary responsibil-
ity of identifying invertebrates and collecting signiﬁ-
cant voucher specimens. The appointee will be the lead
taxonomist in processing benthic marine macroinverte-brates collected as vouchers for catch records of survey
operations.
The position is funded for one year, but may be re-
newed for two additional years based on satisfactory
performance and available funds.
The qualiﬁed applicant will have completed an earned
doctorate in biology or a related discipline by 1 July
2010. The successful candidate will have signiﬁcant ex-
perience in the taxonomy of marine invertebrates, and
will be familiar with one or more components of the
eastern North Paciﬁc marine invertebrate fauna. Ex-
perience at sea, curatorial experience, and taxonomic
publications are preferred.
For additional information on the position, contact
James W. Orr (James.Orr@noaa.gov) or Ted Pietsch
(twp@uw.edu). To apply, send a letter of application
with CV, by hard copy or email to either contact, and
arrange to have three letters of recommendation sent
to the following address:
Dr. Theodore W. Pietsch School of Aquatic and Fish-
ery Sciences University of Washington Campus Box
355020 Seattle, Washington 98195
James Orr <James.Orr@noaa.gov >
UWesternSydney InsectAdaptations
The Centre for Plants and the Environment is seeking
to appoint two energetic Postdoctoral Research Fellows
with strong track records to initiate and conduct re-
search projects that complement research currently be-
ing undertaken within one or more of the Centre for
Plants and the Environment research themes (Climate
Change, Ecological Systems and Biodiversity, and Sus-
tainable Plant Production).
Applicants will be expected to submit a research pro-
posal for a three year project that has been planned in
conjunction with one or more core members of the Cen-
tre for Plants and the Environment www.uws.edu.au/-
cpe
Australia’s natural, agricultural and forest ecosystems
are under increasing pressure from accelerating climate
change and a growing population. The Centre for
Plants and the Environment at the University of West-
ern Sydney is providing pivotal information for the sus-
tainable management of these ecosystems by advancing
basic and applied research in a diverse range of dis-June 1, 2010 EvolDir 95
ciplines including soil microbiology, entomology, plant
biology, and ecology from cells to ecosystems.
Remuneration Package: Academic Level A $78,903 to
$84,467 p.a. (comprising Salary $66,674 to $71,376 p.a.,
17% Superannuation and Leave Loading)
Position Information: https://uws.nga.net.au/cp/ (po-
sition ref 440/10; Closing Date: 15 June 2010)
Position Enquiries: Professor John Cairney, +61 (02)
4570 1404, or j.cairney@uws.edu.au
Interested researchers with a research focus on In-
sect Adaptations to Plants/Insect Symbiosis/Applied
Insect Symbiosis please contact Dr Markus Riegler
(m.riegler@uws.edu.au) in order to discuss applications.
My research interests are insect symbioses, their con-
tribution to insect adaptations to plants in changing
environments, as well as their application in biolog-
ical and biotechnological control. Ongoing research
projects on symbiotic interactions of insects expand
from molecular, species and community interactions,
and their evolution. More information is available on
www.uws.edu.au/cpemarkusriegler
Dr Markus Riegler Centre for Plants and the Environ-
ment School of Natural Sciences University of Western
Sydney Locked Bag 1797 Penrith South DC NSW 1797
Australia email: m.riegler@uws.edu.au oﬃce: +61-
(0)2-4570 1229 fax: +61-(0)2-4570 1314
www.uws.edu.au/cpemarkusriegler “be part of symbio-
sis research”
M.Riegler@uws.edu.au
UWisconsinMilwaukee
EcologicalGenetics
Postdoctoral Position: Ecological Genetics of Invasive
Species.
A postdoctoral position in ecological genetics is avail-
able at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The
successful candidate will work on a collaborative project
examining genetic structure of an invasive plant in its
native and introduced ranges in the lab of Drs. Sara
Hoot, Gretchen Meyer and Mai Phillips. Using existing
plant collections, the postdoctoral associate will assist
in the following projects: 1) develop molecular markers
to investigate genetic variation of /Solidago gigantea/
in its native range (US) and introduced range (Europe),
2) explore relationships among the genetic data andpreviously-collected datasets on secondary chemistry,
susceptibility to herbivory, and growth and reproduc-
tive characters of the same plants, and 3) develop a
molecular phylogeny of the /Solidago canadensis/ com-
plex (including the species most closely related to /S.
gigantea/).
A Ph.D. and a strong background in ecological ge-
netics, systematics, or evolution is required. Experi-
ence extracting and amplifying DNA from plant tis-
sue is preferred, and interest or experience with ge-
netics of invasive plants is desirable. The University
of Wisconsin-Milwaukee has a strong research group
in ecology and evolution ( http://www4.uwm.edu/-
letsci/biologicalsciences/grad/eeb/index.cfm ) and Mil-
waukee is a vibrant city oﬀering many cultural and
recreational opportunities ( http://www4.uwm.edu/-
visitors/amazing milwaukee.cfm ).
We oﬀer a competitive salary and full beneﬁts. The
position is for one year with an opportunity to con-
tribute to grant-writing for further funding. Start date
will be between July - Aug 2010. Review of applica-
tions will begin June 10 and continue until position is
ﬁlled. To apply, send letter of interest highlighting your
relevant experience and interests, a complete CV, and
contact information for 3 referees to Gretchen Meyer
(gmeyer@uwm.edu or by mail to UWM Field Station,
3095 Blue Goose Rd, Saukville WI 53080).
gmeyer@uwm.edu
Xishuangbanna TropicalGarden
Biodiversity
The Ecological Evolution group based in the Xishuang-
banna Tropical Botanical Garden (XTBG - part of the
Chinese Academy Of Sciences) invites applications for a
bioinformatics postdoctoral fellow. The Ecological Evo-
lution Group promotes basic and conservation related
research in Asian tropical forests. Our group members
work on a wide range of topics including, comparative
genomics, phylogeography, remote sensing and commu-
nity ecology. We are now starting a new initiative on
the genomics of tropical biodiversity.
The candidate should have a Ph.D. and experience in
evolutionary genomics, computational biology, bioinfor-
matics, biophysics, biochemistry, computer science, or
related disciplines. Programming skills and experience
with Illumina short-read genomic data are desirable.96 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Candidates with excellent programming skills but no
prior biological research experience are also encouraged
to apply. The candidate would be responsible for the
analysis of genomic data from numerous species of trop-
ical forest trees. We are actively developing novel an-
alytical approaches for comparative genomics and phy-
logenomics. The candidate would participate in inter-
national multidisciplinary collaborative projects. Over
the next few years, we will be organizing a series of in-
ternational workshops and working groups on tropical
genomics, starting in April 2011 with a working group
focused on ﬁg (Ficus) genomics.
The 2-year fellowship includes a research package of
200,000 RMB (ca. 30,000 USD). The annual salary
is 60,000 RMB, equivalent to a salary of 32,000 USD
based on cost of living. Additional beneﬁts include free
housing, utilities, and week-day lunches. All travel/visa
costs are covered. Additional salary and research
bonuses can be obtained by publishing in ISI indexed
journals. The candidate will live in a tropical botani-
cal garden in a rural area close to the Chinese-Laotian
border, thus a taste for adventure, natural beauty,
and unique cultural experiences is helpful. Despite
the remote location, XTBG is an established and well-
supported international research institute with strong,
reliable connectivity to necessary computing and inter-
net resources. For more information about XTBG and
our research group visit www.ecologicalevolution.org
and en.xtbg.ac.cn.
Interested candidates should submit a CV and con-
tact information for at least two references to Professor
Chuck Cannon chuck <at>xtbg.ac.cn.
www.ecologicalevolution.org Charles Cannon, Ph.D.
$B[I?NBn(B Professor of Ecological Evolution Chinese
Academy of Sciences Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanic
Garden 666303 Yunnan P.R. China
tel +86.691.8717187 (Banna oﬃce) tel:
+86.871.5160155 (Kunming oﬃce) fax
+86.691.8715070
chuck.cannon@gmail.com
Zurich AngiospermRadiations
Switzerland, Zurich: Ph.D. and Post-Doctoral Posi-
tions in Angiosperm Radiations
The goal of the interdisciplinary project “Cenozoic Ra-
diations” is to test the hypothesis that the modern An-giosperm diversity has been assembled through a series
of adaptive radiations during the Cenozoic, resulting
from the interaction between evolving plant functional
traits and environmental change. The project will link
recent advances in building and analysing huge phylo-
genetic trees, with an increased understanding of plant
functional traits, and substantial progress in document-
ing Cenozoic Angiosperm fossils. The project is based
at the Institute of Systematic Botany of the Univer-
sity of Zurich, with close collaborations with researchers
in Switzerland (Nicolas Salamin, Colin Hughes), Ger-
many (Volker Mosbrugger, Dieter Uhl), the US (Peter
Wilf, Kevin Nixon, Maria Gandolfo), Mexico (Susana
Magallon), Australia (Greg Jordan) and South Africa
(William Bond). Funding comes from the Swiss Na-
tional Fund for Science (SNF).
There are three positions, each with funding for three
years:
PhD / Postdoc in building and analysing the An-
giosperm phylogenetic tree. This position will focus on
identifying signiﬁcant shifts in the Angiosperm diversi-
ﬁcation rate during the Cenozoic by mapping species
richness over a large, dated Angiosperm phylogeny.
This involves building the tree, rate correcting and age-
calibrating it, and calculating the diversiﬁcation rate
shifts on the tree.
PhD / Postdoc in plant functional traits (PFT’s). This
researcher will identify potential important plant func-
tional traits, and interpret the evolution of these traits
in the context of the Angiosperm phylogeny. Correla-
tions between global and local environmental changes
and shifts in the diversiﬁcation rates can be used to
evaluate the importance of the PFT’s in the diversiﬁ-
cation of particular clades.
PhD / Postdoc in Cenozoic Angiosperm palaeobotany.
This will link shifts in the diversiﬁcation rates and in
the PFT’s to fossil sites, by placing the nearest living
relatives of the fossils on the Angiosperm phylogenetic
tree. This places the radiations in a spatial context, as
well as corroborating the temporal context.
For further information, contact Peter Linder (Pe-
ter.linder@systbot.uzh.ch).
Applications MUST be received no later than Wednes-
day, 30 June 2010. Interviews to be held either middle
July or middle August, with a start date in November
or December 2010.
To apply, send the following materials, as separate PDF
ﬁles, to Peter Linder (Peter.linder@systbot.uzh.ch):
1. PDF of cover letter, indicating –position applied for
–your career goals –your research interests in contextJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 97
of the Cenozoic Radiations project –a detail of how the
previous experience and skills shown in your CV pre-
pare you speciﬁcally for the position for which you are
applying
2. PDF of CV, complete, showing contact informa-
tion, title of thesis and dissertation, date, universities,
research experience, notable skills, advanced courses,
publication list, posters and talks presented, awards,
service, etc. If your Masters / PhD is not yet com-
pleted, please indicate by when you expect to graduate.3. PDF of the abstract of your Masters thesis or Ph.D.
dissertation research. If your Masters / PhD is not yet
completed, please provide a summary.
4. PDF of university report of coursework, showing
grades and degrees earned (must be in English)
5. PDF’s of published papers and papers in-press.
Peter Linder Institute for Systematic Botany Zolliker-
strasse 107 CH 8008 Z¨ urich Switzerland Ph: +41 (0)44
634 8410 Fax: +41 (0)44 634 8403
Peter Linder <peter.linder@systbot.uzh.ch >
WorkshopsCourses
Austria IST EvolutionaryGenetics Sep28-Oct1 . . . . . 97
Bologna HumanEvolution May17-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Edinburgh PopulationSequencing Aug31 . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Perth SexualSelection Oct2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Poznan Poland BioinformaticsSummerSchool Jul5-10
99
Sevilla PopulationGeneticsClimateChange Sep20-Oct1100
UCopenhagen EvolutionaryGenetic SocialEvolution
Jul5-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UManchester Morphometrics Nov8-Dec17 . . . . . . . . 101
UMichigan EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul12-16 . . . 102
Austria IST EvolutionaryGenetics
Sep28-Oct1
Introduction to Evolutionary Genetics 28 September -
1 October 2010
Evolutionary genetics is central to a wide range of bi-
ological questions, and is expanding dramatically with
the ﬂood of DNA sequence data. This intensive four-
day course will give a thorough introduction to the sub-
ject, showing its broad scope, and teaching a variety of
techniques that can be used to model the evolutionary
process, and that can be applied to diverse problems.
The course is aimed at graduate students with diverse
backgrounds - both in evolutionary biology, and coming
in from diﬀerent ﬁelds. Teaching will be a combination
of lectures, discussion groups, and worked examples;simulation software will be provided.
For details, see www.ist.ac.at/evogen-workshop Fac-
ulty
Nick Barton, Jon Bollback, Sylvia Cremer (IST Aus-
tria) Reinhard B¨ urger, Joachim Hermisson, Ines Hell-
man (U Vienna) Magnus Nordborg (Gregor Mendel In-
stitute, Vienna) Christian Schl¨ otterer (Vetmeduni Vi-
enna) Daniel Kronauer ( Harvard U) Daven Presgraves
(U Rochester) Michael Turelli (U California, Davis)
This workshop is a joint initiative between IST Austria
and the Vienna Graduate School of Population Genet-
ics. For more information, see www.popgen-vienna.at/
and www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna/
Dates
28 September - 1 October 2010. The course runs for
four full days, with students arriving for a welcome re-
ception on the evening of Monday 27 September.
Costs The course fee is euro 330,-. This includes lodg-98 EvolDir June 1, 2010
ing on the IST campus, meals, course material, and
social events.
Location The course will be held at the campus of IST
Austria, which is just outside Vienna. Accommodation
will be in the Guesthouse on campus.
Registration Application deadline is May 16, 2010. Suc-
cessful applicants will be notiﬁed by end of May 2010
n.barton@ed.ac.uk
Bologna HumanEvolution May17-19
Dear all,
You can still register for the Course in Genomic
and Cultural Evolution of Humans <http://-
192.168.253.20/course/course-genomic-and-cultural-
evolution-humans >(link). As of today no more
accommodation facilities are available. You can attend
the course (only coﬀee breaks and lunch provided) by
paying a fee of 300 euros + Vat 20 % (if you have to
pay VAT - see note below).
The course will take place in Bologna (Italy) at the Eu-
roMediterranean University Centre of Ronzano on May
17-19, 2010. The course will provide detailed informa-
tion on the tools useful for the study of human genomic
evolution. High-throughput and large scale genotyping,
using both microarrays and massive sequencing to sur-
vey both SNP and CNV, will bring increasing power to
studies of genomic diversity in the near future. Bioin-
formatics is an essential tool in studies of human ge-
nomic evolution. Mornig lectures and afternoon work-
shops will show how bioinformatic tools can be used to
analyze SNP and CNV diversity within an evolution-
ary framework. The course will be of interest to re-
searchers, graduate students and post-docs interested
in genome biology and human evolution. It will also
oﬀer an exposure to the “state of the art” to investiga-
tors contemplating studies or the utilization of tools in
this ﬁeld.
Course Directors: D. Luiselli (Bologna, Italy), D. Pet-
tener (Bologna, Italy), M. Rocchi (Bari, Italy), R.
Stanyon ( Florence, Italy)
Faculty Members: G. Barbujani (Ferrara, Italy), F.
Calafell (Barcelona, Spain), L.L. Cavalli Sforza (Milan,
Italy), C. Guardiano (Reggio Emilia, Italy), J. Krause
(Leipzig, Germany), P. Longobardi (Trieste, Italy),
D. Pettener (Bologna, Italy), A. Qasim (Cambridge,UK), M. Rocchi (Bari, Italy), R. Stanyon (Florence,
Italy), M. Stoneking (Leipzig, Germany),C. Tyler-
Smith (Cambridge, UK), S. Wells (Cornell, USA).
For further information regarding VAT and other ques-
tions please write to: serena.paterlini@eurogene.org *
If YOU ARE ITALIAN AND WORK FOR A PUB-
LIC INSTITUTION (PhD, students, Researchrs, Post
Doc, ...) you are exempted from the payment of
VAT. * If YOU WORK IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY
WITHIN EC and the bill is addressed to your Institu-
tion/Company completing the ﬁeld VAT Number dur-
ing the registration to the Course, you are exempted
from the payment of VAT . * If YOU WORK IN A
FOREIGN COUNTRY OUTSIDE EC and the bill is
addressed to your Institution/Company you are ex-
empted from the payment of VAT
If the bill is addressed to yourself you are not exempted
from Vat payment.
For further info visit EGF website ( www.eurogene.org )
or write to serena.paterlini@eurogene.org
Thank you in advance, Serena Paterlini
Useful links: Course Program < http://-
192.168.253.20/course/course-genomic-and-cultural-
evolution-humans > EGF Website < http://-
www.eurogene.org/course/course-mitochondrial-
metabolism-and-cancer >
Serena Paterlini Training and EU Projects European
Genetics Foundation Via di Gaibola, 16 40138 Bologna
tel:0039051-2088414 fax:0039-0515870611
“European Genetics Founda-
tion [serena.paterlini@eurogene.org]”
<serena.paterlini@eurogene.org >
Edinburgh PopulationSequencing
Aug31
2nd UK RAD Sequencing Meeting 31st August 2010,
9:00 am - 5:00 pm Edinburgh University http://-
www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/events/1090/ Dear all,
The 2nd UK meeting on RAD (Restriction-site Associ-
ated DNA) Sequencing, a new method for SNP discov-
ery and genetic mapping by sequencing thousands of
markers in multiple individuals using next generation
DNA sequencing, will be held in Edinburgh on August
31st.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 99
The meeting is intended to bring together UK and Eu-
ropean researchers who are implementing or are inter-
ested in RAD sequencing. There is no charge for atten-
dance.
Dr Paul Hohenlohe from the University of Oregon, co-
author on a recent major paper on RAD Sequencing
(http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1000862 ), will
be attending the meeting to talk about his work, us-
ing RAD Sequencing to study population genomics of
threespine stickleback.
The meeting will cover the use of RAD Sequencing for
genotyping, linkage mapping, genome scaﬀolding and
population genomics. A range of ongoing projects will
be presented and there will be opportunity to discuss
the wet lab and bioinformatics aspects of the method.
If you would like to attend, please register online at
http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/events/1090/ . If you have
any queries, please contact me at john.davey@ed.ac.uk.
Please feel free to forward this message on to anyone
you think may be interested.
Best wishes, John Davey
Background to RAD Sequencing method:
By cutting genomic DNA with a restriction enzyme, it
is possible to sequence thousands of markers with high
coverage in a single individual using next generation se-
quencing. By adding a short DNA identifying sequence
to the fragments for one individual, it is possible to pool
multiple individuals together, sequence them all on one
lane of an Illumina Genome Analyzer run, and separate
out the sequences for each individual bioinformatically
by examining the identiﬁers.
Because each fragment can be sequenced with high cov-
erage, and the fragments from a particular restriction
enzyme site can be easily aligned, it is easy to call SNPs
in these sequences. If a reference genome is present, it
is also easy to identify recombination regions and so
produce genetic maps for the sequenced individuals.
Dr. John Davey Bioinformatics Researcher and Sup-
port Provider Institute of Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Edinburgh
Post : Room 354 Ashworth Laboratories King’s Build-
ings West Mains Road Edinburgh EH9 3JT UK Email
: john.davey@ed.ac.uk Phone : +44 (0) 131 650 7403
Web : genepool.bio.ed.ac.uk www.nematodes.org John
Davey <john.davey@ed.ac.uk >Perth SexualSelection Oct2
2 October 2010, directly after the ISBE-meeting in
Perth, Western Australia, a Post-Congress Symposium
will be arranged on the theme “How Can Sexual Selec-
tion be Measured?”
Measuring sexual selection is not straightforward and
since this is still an unresolved question, with no general
consensus, we think this will be a highly stimulating
subject for a post-ISBE symposium.
Our aim is to create an open minded discussion on this
subject. We hope to achieve this by talks and partici-
pants that represent a mix of theoretical and empirical
approaches. Eight short talks will be given by Parti-
cia Gowaty, Stephen Hubbel, John Hunt, Hope Klug,
Aline Magdalena Lee, Patrick Lorch, Michael Wade and
Michael Webster. In addition, we will devote a fair
amount of time to discussion, both in smaller groups
and in a joint discussion.
Registration: All participants of the symposium
have to register for the main meeting ( http://-
isbeperth2010.com/index.html ). As part of the regis-
tration, you’ll be asked to tick a box for a Post Congress
Symposium: Please tick ours! :-) N.B. The deadline for
Early Bird registration is 28 May 2010.
We look forward to see you in Perth!
Lotta Kvarnemo (lotta.kvarnemo@zool.gu.se),
Adam Jones (agjones@tamu.edu) & Kai Lindstr¨ om
(kai.lindstrom@abo.ﬁ)
lotta.kvarnemo@zool.gu.se
Poznan Poland
BioinformaticsSummerSchool
Jul5-10
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce the 8th edition of Poznan
Summer School of Bioinformatics. The course will take
place on 5th ˆ a 10th July 2010 in Poznan (Poland). The
workshop covers the most interesting and up-to-date
subjects of bioinformatics. It is a great opportunity to100 EvolDir June 1, 2010
improve your skills and knowledge in this dynamically
developing ﬁeld.
Details can be found at the workshop website: http:/-
/lemur.amu.edu.pl/bioinfo Please forward this an-
nouncement to anyone who might be interested.
Best regards,
Organizing Committee
Contact: genomics@amu.edu.pl
Wojciech Maka ˚Aowski <wojmak@uni-muenster.de >
Sevilla
PopulationGeneticsClimateChange
Sep20-Oct1
The Estacion Biologica de Donana (Sevilla, Spain) in-
vites applications for an international course entitled
-Ecological Consequences of Climate Changes: Inte-
grating Research Approaches’ that will take place from
20 September to 1 October 2010 in the heart of the
Do˜ nana National Park. The course is dedicated to stu-
dents at the PhD and Master/advanced Diploma levels
who are involved in research related with global change.
Its aim is to provide a synthetic overview upon diﬀer-
ent research perspectives ranging from palaeoecology
to population genetics, ecophysiology and bioclimatic
modelling. The course will include lectures provided by
an international panel of high-proﬁle researchers, exer-
cises using data of the Do˜ nana environmental monitor-
ing programme ( http://icts.ebd.csic.es ), as well as ﬁeld
trips within the National Park.
Invited teachers:
Miguel Araujo, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Natu-
rales, Madrid, Spain Gary Bortolotti, University of
Saskatchewan, Canada Jose S. Carrion, Universidad
de Murcia, Spain Miguel Ferrer, Estacion Biologica
de Donana, Sevilla, Spain Clive Finlayson, Gibral-
tar Museum, Gibraltar, UK Arndt Hampe, Estacion
Biologica de Donana, Sevilla, Spain Josep Pe˜ nuelas,
Centre de Recerca Ecologica i Aplicacions Forestals,
Barcelona, Spain Fernando Valladares, Centro de
Ciencias Medioambientales, Madrid, Spain Katherine
Willis, University of Oxford, UK
Local organizers: Juan Jose Negro and Arndt Hampe
The course language will be English. Support from
the Gas Natural Chair -Biodiversity Conservation un-der Climate Change’ enables us to waive registration
fees and to cover all costs for the transport between
Sevilla and Donana National Park, accommodation
and meals during the course. Applicants should pro-
vide a brief CV (max. two pages) as well as a state-
ment (max. 500 words) about their research inter-
ests/current projects and why they would like to attend
to the course. Application deadline is 15 June. Please
send applications in a single pdf ﬁle to Begona Arriza-
balaga (bego@ebd.csic.es) and any related questions to
Juan Jose Negro (negro@ebd.csic.es).
Arndt Hampe Ram´ on y Cajal postdoctoral fellow
Integrative Ecology Department Estaci´ on Biol´ ogica
de Do˜ nana (CSIC) Av. Am´ erico Vespucio s/n E-
41092 Sevilla Spain email: arndt@ebd.csic.es http:/-
/ieg.ebd.csic.es/arndthampe/ Tlf: ++34 954 466700
ext. 1451 Fax: ++34 954 621125
arndt@ebd.csic.es
UCopenhagen EvolutionaryGenetic
SocialEvolution Jul5-10
Residential Ph.D. course: Evolutionary Genetic Ap-
proaches to Study Social Evolution
University of Copenhagen, Denmark, 5-10 July, 2010
Final Announcement
Location: The course will be held at Sømine Station
nearby Copenhagen, Denmark.
Aims: To introduce evolutionary genetic theory and
empirical approaches to study social evolution. The
course will emphasize both traditional and post-
genomic evolutionary genetic approaches.
Target group: The course is aimed at PhD students but
interested postdocs or MSc students will also be consid-
ered as space permits. Class size will be approximately
20 students.
Topics
The course will consist of lectures, readings, and dis-
cussion on the following subjects:
*Relation of evolutionary genetic approaches to pheno-
typic optimality approaches to study social evolution
*Basic concepts in population genetics
*Basic concepts in quantitative genetics
*Maternal eﬀects and parent-oﬀspring coadaptationJune 1, 2010 EvolDir 101
*Indirect genetic eﬀects arising from social interactions
*Empirical approaches to estimate indirect genetic ef-
fects
*Evolutionary response to selection with indirect ge-
netic eﬀects
*Predicted patterns of sequence variation for genes with
social eﬀects; mutation-kin selection balance
*Levels of selection and kin selection theory
*Evolution of societies
*Evolution of interspeciﬁc interactions
*Participants will also brieﬂy describe their own re-
search
Teachers
Timothy Linksvayer, Centre for Social Evolution, De-
partment of Biology, U. Copenhagen, Denmark
Michael Wade, Department of Biology, Indiana U.,
USA
Guest teachers
Piter Bijma, Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre,
Wageningen U., The Netherlands
David Queller, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology, Rice U., USA
Joan Strassmann, Department of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology, Rice U., USA
Jacobus Boomsma, Centre for Social Evolution, Dep.
Biology, U. Copenhagen, Denmark
Cost: 2600 DKK per participant
ECTS credits: 5
Application and contact: To apply please send a CV
by June 10 to Tim Linksvayer (talinksvayer@bio.ku.dk)
along with a brief description of:
1. The relevance of the course to your research
2. Your background and relevant experience.
Please contact Tim Linksvayer
(talinksvayer@bio.ku.dk) with any questions.
tlinksvayer@gmail.com
UManchester Morphometrics
Nov8-Dec17Dear colleagues
I am pleased to announce this year’s morphometrics
course from the University of Manchester. This year’s
course will run in the six weeks from 8 November to 17
December 2010.
The course information can be found on the following
we site: http://www.ﬂywings.org.uk/MorphoCourse
Course content: * Data acquisition: the kinds of data
and the equipment used to collect them. * Deﬁni-
tions of size and shape * Geometric methods to char-
acterise shape from a conﬁguration of landmark points
(Procrustes superimposition) * Statistics of variation,
scatter plots, basic multivariate statistics * Principal
component analysis * Measurement error and outliers
* Shape transformations and ’warping’ – the thin plate
spline * Analysis of outline shapes * Distinguishing
between groups (taxonomy, clinical diagnosis, etc.) *
Allometry and size correction * Inﬂuence of external
factors on shape (ecomorphology, dose- response stud-
ies) * Symmetric forms and measurement of asymme-
try. * Morphometric inferences on developmental pro-
cesses, morphological integration, modularity * Genet-
ics of shape: analyses of resemblance between relatives,
QTL analyses. * Phylogeny: reconstructing the evolu-
tion of shape
Practice examples: As far as possible, practical exer-
cises are provided to accompany the course content.
These practice exercises consist of data sets and expla-
nations on how to run the respective analyses using
the MorphoJ software ( http://www.ﬂywings.org.uk/-
MorphoJ page.htm ). Participants who already have
their own data are encouraged to use those and to dis-
cuss them as part of the course. I hope there will be a
bit of a ’workshop’ feel to the course unit.
Group work: Participants will work in small groups
to prepare web presentations of possible morphometric
studies (wikis prepared by the groups). This activity
stimulates discussion and provides a broad overview of
the broad range of questions that can be addressed with
morphometric methods.
The fee for the course is GBP 250.00 (I’m afraid it’s
gone up again from last year – this is out of my con-
trol).
All prospective participants need to pre-register for the
course. The deadline for this is the *10 September
2010*.
For further details, see the course web page: http:/-
/www.ﬂywings.org.uk/MorphoCourse Best wishes,
Chris
–102 EvolDir June 1, 2010
Christian Peter Klingenberg Faculty of Life Sciences
The University of Manchester Michael Smith Building
Oxford Road Manchester M13 9PT United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 161 275 3899 Fax: +44 161 275
5082 E-mail: cpk@manchester.ac.uk Web: http://-
www.ﬂywings.org.uk Skype: chris klingenberg
cpk@manchester.ac.uk
UMichigan
EvolutionaryEpidemiology Jul12-16
A One week Graduate Summer Seminar on Evolution-
ary Epidemiology
EPID 788 (1 credit hour) July 12-16 1:30-5 PM at the
University of Michigan School of Public Health Course
website: http://sites.google.com/site/evepid/ Profes-
sor: Randolph Nesse
Overview: New applications of evolutionary the-
ory to medicine are growing and helping to ex-
plain apparent paradoxes, such as rapidly increas-ing rates of breast cancer, increased asthma vulner-
ability in certain populations and the metabolic syn-
drome (For details see The Evolution and Medicine
Review at http://evmedreview.com ). Epidemiolo-
gists have begun to apply these principles and ask
new questions, such as do genes that vary by lat-
itude explain hypertension, and how might public
health interventions for infectious disease be ’evolution-
proofed’ (see discussion of the American College of
Epidemiology 2008 meeting: Dawn of Evolutionary
Epidemiology ( http://acepidemiology.org/meetings/-
2008Tuscon/08AMSpeakerHandouts.asp ). This course
will explore how epidemiologists and other public
health workers can make use of these advances in their
own work. Applying evolutionary theory can sharpen
research questions, raise new possible explanations for
observed phenomena and identify new types of expo-
sure and outcome measures. Pre-requisite: No prior
training in evolutionary biology is assumed.
Information: http://www.sph.umich.edu/epid/-
GSS/courses/1week.html Registration: https://-
www.sph.umich.edu/scr/includes/gss/login.cfm For
more information contact Randolph Nesse, M.D. The
University of Michigan nesse@umich.edu http://-
nesse.us nesse@umich.edu
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.June 1, 2010 EvolDir 103
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.