E v o l D i r
January 1, 2017
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .147
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Conferences
AsconaSwitzerland PopGenomicsFungalPathogens
May7-11 AbstReminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Austin Texas SMBE AbstractsOpen Jul2-6 . . . . . . . . . 3
BatonRougeLA SocietyOfSystematicBiologists Jan7-10
4
Blossin InsectImmunity Aug28-Sep1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Edinburgh ProtistEvolution Apr3-Apr6 . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Edinburgh WildlifeForensics Jun5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Groningen ESEB BiologicalClocks Aug20-25 . . . . . . . .6
Groningen ESEB CoevolAntagonisticEcoInteractions
Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Groningen ESEB CoevolutionHostsMicrobiome Aug20-
25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Groningen ESEB EcoEvoDynamics Aug20-25 . . . . . . .8
Groningen ESEB EvolutionaryNetworks Aug20-25 . . 9
Groningen ESEB ExptEvolution Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . 9
Groningen ESEB FitnessInSocialEnvironments Aug20-
25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Groningen ESEB FitnessLandscapesPredictingEvolu-
tion Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Groningen ESEB GeneExpressionEvolution Aug20-25
11
Groningen ESEB GenomicsOfAdaptation Aug20-25 12
Groningen ESEB MutualismParasitism Aug20-25 . .12Groningen ESEB NonGeneticInheritance Aug20-25 13
Groningen ESEB ParasiteEvolution Aug20-25 . . . . . 14
Groningen ESEB PhyloInferenceGenomicEra Aug20-25
14
Groningen ESEB RapidEvol Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Groningen ESEB Recombination Aug20-25 . . . . . . . . 15
Groningen ESEB RecombRateVariation Aug20-25 . 16
Groningen ESEB SpatialEvolution Aug20-25 . . . . . . 17
Groningen EvolutionMedicineSociety Aug18-21 . . . . 17
Hannover Germany EcoEvoDynamcis Oct9-13 . . . . . 18
Italy Speciation Feb19-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Karkow EvolutionaryMyrmecology Apr21-24 . . . . . . 18
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9 AbstractsFinalRe-
minder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9 AbstractSubmission
19
Marseilles 21stEvolutionaryBiology Sep26-29 Info . .19
Mexico CaveshAdaptation Mar12-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
PorquerollesIsle France MathEvolBiol Jun12-16 . . . .20
Portugal AlCoB Jun5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UCalifornia SanDiego ExperimentalEvolution Jan5-6 21
UMichigan PhenotypicPlasticity Mar10-12 . . . . . . . . .22
Vienna EvolutionaryEpigenetics Sep12-15 . . . . . . . . . 22
AsconaSwitzerland
PopGenomicsFungalPathogens
May7-11 AbstReminder
AsconaSwitzerland.PopGenomicsFungalPathogens.May7-
11.Abstracts.Reminder
POPULATION GENOMICS OF FUNGAL AND
OOMYCETE PATHOGENS OF ANIMALS AND
PLANTS7-11 May 2017
Monte Verita Conference Center, Ascona, Switzerland
Conference website: http://www.path.ethz.ch/-
education/population-genomics-of-fungal-and-oom
ycete-diseases-of-animals-a.html
Conference email inquiries to: ascona 2017@usys.ethz.ch
CONFERENCE OVERVIEW:
The population genomics of fungal and oomycete
pathogens is a rapidly growing area of research. New
datasets, new sequencing methodologies and new an-
alytical methods are enabling a deeper understandingJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 3
of the evolutionary processes driving the emergence of
fungal and oomycete pathogens. This conference aims
to enrich our understanding of the processes driving the
evolution of plant, animal and human pathogens, with
an over-riding goal of identifying the genomic changes
responsible for adaptation to novel hosts and environ-
ments. A secondary goal will be to determine how the
relevant genes (and their underlying functions) vary
along ecological/agronomic gradients associated with
host specialization, including quantitative adaptation to
host resistance. The conference will be oriented around
genome-based approaches, including; 1) using popula-
tion genomics to understand pathogen emergence and
host specialization, 2) using genome-wide association
studies to identify key genes and genomic regions associ-
ated with pathogen local adaptation, 3) using population
genomics to understand pathogen divergence/speciation,
4) developing new analytical methods for population
genomic analyses.
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS:
Daniel Croll (University of Neuchatel, Switzerland)
Barbara Dunn (Stanford University, USA)
Matthew Fisher (Imperial College London, UK)
Tatiana Giraud (CNRS-Universite Paris Sud, France)
Pierre Gladieux (INRA BGPI, France)
Michael Hood (Amherst College, USA)
Hanna Johannesson (Uppsala University, Sweden)
Sophien Kamoun (The Sainsbury Laboratory, John
Innes Center, UK)
Anna-Liisa Laine (University of Helsinki, Finland)
Gianni Liti (IRCAN, France)
Bruce McDonald (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)
Joseph Spatafora (Oregon State University, USA)
Jason Stajich (University of California Riverside, USA)
John Taylor (University of California Berkeley, USA)
~30 additional speakers will be chosen from among the
submitted abstracts.
VENUE:
~75 conference participants will be able stay on-site at
the Monte Verita conference center. The remaining ~35
participants will be able to nd accommodation in the
nearby city of Ascona. All lunches and dinners will take
place at the Monte Verita conference center. More de-
tails, including o-site housing options, will be provided
on the conference website.
REGISTRATION:The cost of attending this 4-day meeting will be approxi-
mately $900-1200 for each conference delegate depending
on the chosen accommodations. This cost includes
a $100 registration fee, all meals and lodging. Pre-
registration is required (https://www.ethz.ch/content/-
dam/ethz/special-interest/usys/ibz/plant-p athology-
dam/documents/Ascona 2017/Application form forPopulation Geno
mics Meeting Ascona May 2017.pdf). Applicants
should submit a 250-word abstract for an oral and/or
poster presentation. The form can be downloaded on
the conference website.
Pre-registration closes on 31 December 2016.
Bruce McDonald Plant Pathology Institute of Inte-
grative Biology, Zurich (IBZ) ETH Zurich, LFW B16
8092 Zurich Switzerland Oce: +41 44 632 3847 FAX:
+41 44 632 1572 Assistant: +41 44 632 3848 (San-
dra Galfetti) Email: bruce.mcdonald@usys.ethz.ch Web
(Group): http://www.path.ethz.ch McDonald Bruce
<bruce.mcdonald@usys.ethz.ch >
Austin Texas SMBE AbstractsOpen
Jul2-6
*SMBE 2017 jAbstracts Open*
We are delighted to announce that the abstract system
for the Annual Meeting of the Society for Molecular
Biology and Evolution 2017 is now open! We are accept-
ing abstracts via the ocial SMBE 2017 website. Just
follow the link below or click here to nd out more.
Taking place from 2nd - 6th July, 2017, in Austin, USA,
SMBE 2017 is an opportunity to join your colleagues
and present your work internationally to world leaders
and experts within the industry.
Registration for SMBE 2017 will open during December,
please keep an eye on our registration page for updates.
*
SMBE 2017 Website <http://ch1-marketing.mci-
group.com/t/112066/49707052/23983/0/ >
jRegistration <http://ch1-marketing.mci-group.com/-
t/112066/49707052/23986/0/ > jIndustry <http:/-
/ch1-marketing.mci-group.com/t/112066/49707052/-
23988/0/ > jContact <http://ch1-marketing.mci-
group.com/t/112066/49707052/23989/0/ >jUnsub-
scribe
SMBE 2017 <SMBE2017@mci-group.com >4 EvolDir January 1, 2017
BatonRougeLA
SocietyOfSystematicBiologists
Jan7-10
NOTE: The regular registration period has been ex-
tended by one day, but will be closing this Friday, Dec.
16th. After Friday, registration rates will increase and
hotel rooms may not be available at the discounted rate.
Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) Standalone Meet-
ing January 8-10, 2017 Baton Rouge, LA
Following on the tremendous success of the 2015 Stan-
dalone Meeting in Ann Arbor, SSB is pleased to an-
nounce its next Standalone Meeting in Baton Rouge,
LA, scheduled for January 8-10, 2017, and hosted by
Louisiana State University. This meeting will feature
a wide variety of workshops, lightning talks, as well as
society-wide debates and discussions. The Society is
committed to promoting the involvement of students and
other early-career researchers by oering travel awards
and a welcoming atmosphere. The meeting will oer
many opportunities for meaningful interactions, with a
maximum capacity of 300 attendees.
Meeting registration will cover attendance at all work-
shops, coee breaks, talks, and debates, as well as an
evening reception at the LSU Museum of Natural Sci-
ence. NSF program directors will also be available to
discuss the future of support for research in systematic
biology.
Outstanding venues have been reserved for the meeting,
including the newly renovated Hilton Capitol Center
hotel and the beautiful Manship Theatre at the Shaw
Center for the Arts, both in downtown Baton Rouge.
These venues are in close proximity to a wide variety
of excellent restaurants and cultural attractions. Atten-
dees are strongly encouraged to book lodging as part
of the group reservation at the Hilton (see below for
details).
Full details, including a detailed schedule, are available
on the meeting webpage: https://ssb2017.github.io/
Follow @jembrown and @systbiol on Twitter for meeting
updates.
Dedicated nursing and lactation rooms will be available
during the meeting.
Conrmed workshops will oer training directly from
the developers of popular software tools including Arbor,Bayou, BioGeoBears, Dendropy, RevBayes, Phrapl, and
TreeScaper.
Conrmed debate and discussion leaders include:
Frank Burbrink (AMNH) Scott Edwards (Harvard Uni-
versity) Matt Hahn (Indiana University) Mark Holder
(University of Kansas) Emily Jane McTavish (Univer-
sity of California, Merced) Gavin Naylor (College of
Charleston) Rachel Schwartz (University of Rhode Is-
land) Anne Yoder (Duke University)
Register here:
https://www.regonline.com/registration/-
checkin.aspx?MethodId=3D0&EventSessionId=-
cf93b99f12c94b34a0ed4d8a5a433db0&EventId=1884549
Individuals registering rst will be given preference
for available spaces in workshops and lightning talk
sessions.
Hotel rooms are available at a special group rate and
can be booked here:
http://www.hilton.com/en/hi/groups/personalized/-
B/BTRCPHF-SSB-20170105/index.jhtml SSB has
recently expanded its membership options and members
can register for the meeting at a reduced rate. Go here
to become an SSB member:
http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our journals/sysbio/-
access purchase/price list.html \jembrown@lsu.edu"
<jembrown@lsu.edu >
Blossin InsectImmunity Aug28-Sep1
{Apple-Mail= E066925B-8191-4F8B-AE47-
557A2E591B7D Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-
printable Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
We would like to announce the Ecological Immunology
Workshop 2017 on:
Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications
28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to
Berlin), Germany.
This workshop will bring together researchers interested
in ecological immunology with a focus on insects, and
with diverse scientic backgrounds ranging from molecu-
lar biology to ecology. The hallmark of these workshops,
started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering free
exchange by keeping it an aordable, small conference
(100 participants). The format consists of eighteen in-
vited speakers, contributed talks and a dedicated poster.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 5
Long breaks provide plenty of opportunity for informal
exchange. Past workshops have initiated new collabo-
rations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has
not been published. The premises are basic but in a
beautiful location conducive to the success of the meet-
ing. We will be located at a lakeside, which at this time
of the year oers great swimming and canoeing, and a
small private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de]
. Program and invited speakers
Genomics and functional work in the wild
Seth Barribeau, University of Liverpool Nicole Gerardo,
Emory University Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University
Hinrich Schulenburg, University of Kiel Ann Tate, Uni-
versity of Texas Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu
Chris Wheat, University of Stockholm
Host-symbiont interactions aecting host immunity
Nichole Broderick, University of Connecticut Ewa
Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology Ellen Decaesteker, Uni-
versity of Leuven Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon Martin
Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz David Schneider, Stan-
ford University
Applying ecological immunology
Lena Bayer-Wilfert, University of Essex Astrid Groot,
University of Amsterdam Dino McMahon, Free Univer-
sity Berlin Brian Weiss, Yale University Ken Wilson,
University of Lancaster
Important dates Registration will open on 15th January
2016 The deadline for abstract submission of oral and
poster presentations is 31st March 2017
Registration fee will include accommodation and cater-
ing (all meals)
We will announce the website with more information
shortly before registration will open.
We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecolog-
ical Immunology Workshop 2017.
Kind regards,
Organizing Committee Jens Rol, Free University of
Berlin Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth Paul Schmid-
Hempel, ETH Zurich
If you have any questions concerning the meeting please
do not hesitate to e-mail us: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de
(program) magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and reg-
istration)
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal
Ecology I University of Bayreuth Universit ~A^Atsstrasse
30 95440 Bayreuth Germany
phone: +49921552646 e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-
bayreuth.deweb: Otti's homepage <http://www.bayceer.uni-
bayreuth.de/toek1/de/mitarbeiter/mit/-
mitarbeiter detail.php?id obj=106154 >
Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >Oliver Otti
<oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >
Edinburgh ProtistEvolution
Apr3-Apr6
Dear all,
The Protistology-UK society will be organising two ses-
sions at the next Annual Conference 2017 of the Micro-
biology Society that will take place in Edinburgh from
Monday 3 April to Thursday 6 April 2017: - Annual
Meeting of Protistology-UK society: Intracellular infec-
tion and endosymbiosis within protists Invited speakers
include Martin Embley, John Archibald, Yousef Abu
Kwaik, David Bass, Eva Nowack, Jean-Michel Claverie,
Chris Lowe and others. - Aquatic microbiology: New
model organisms and new challenges (sponsored by the
Moore Foundation) Invited speakers include John Dolan,
Chris Lane, Thomas Mock, Angela Falciatore, Virginia
Edgcomb, Ross Waller, Susanne Menden-Deuer, Alexan-
dra Z. Worden and many others.
In addition, there are going to be numerous other ses-
sions that might be of interest of researchers in the
evolutionary eld including but not restricted to: >
Microbial genomics: whole population to single cell >
Evolution and virus populations >Anaerobes in infec-
tion
More information about the meeting and abstract sub-
mission: http://www.microbiologysociety.org/events/-
annual-conferences/index.cfm/annual-conference-2017
The submission deadline for poster and oral presen-
tations will close at 23:59 (UK time) on Monday 12
December 2016. Abstracts can be submitted online
through the Society's website, where you will nd full
details of the conference programme and guidelines for
submission. Decisions on successful abstracts will be
made in early 2017.
The 2017 Conference will be the rst time that the
Society awards four sets of poster prizes. The rst
set will be awarded by the Editors of our journals,
the second chosen by members of the Early Career
Microbiologists' Forum, while our Principle Investiga-
tors will select the third. The fourth \People's Choice"
award will be decided upon by delegates at the event.6 EvolDir January 1, 2017
To support attendance, the Society oers grants for
delegates at dierent stages of their careers. For full
details, please see our dedicated grants page: http://-
www.microbiologysociety.org/grants-prizes/index.cfm
We look forward to receiving your abstracts (only a week
to go), and hope to see you in Edinburgh.
Kind regards,
Anastasios Tsaousis
Dr. Anastasios D. Tsaousis (PhD) Lecturer in Molecular
Parasitology University of Kent, School of Biosciences,
Room: Ingram 220 Canterbury, CT2 7NJ, UK tel: +44
(0) 1227 827007
email: tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com
A.Tsaousis@kent.ac.uk
Webpage: http://www.kent.ac.uk/bio/proles/sta/-
tsaousis.html
Orcid: http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5424-1905
tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com
Edinburgh WildlifeForensics Jun5-9
Dear colleagues,
The Society for Wildlife Forensic Science is an interna-
tional organisation promoting the use of forensics in law
enforcement across wildlife crime. I'm writing to draw
your attention to the Society's 2017 meeting that will
be held from 5-9th June in Edinburgh, UK, which may
be of particular interest to Evoldir subscribers working
on population genetics of species involved in the illegal
wildlife trade.
Forensics has been receiving increasing attention within
the wildlife law enforcement community, with inclusion
in numerous high level national and intergovernmental
strategies, as well as the development of new laboratory
facilities around the world.
The meeting will bring together the world's leading
wildlife forensic scientists and includes a special 1-day
International Symposium where we will bring together
Policy, Enforcement and Scientic experts to discuss the
use of forensics in relation to transnational crime, IUU
shing, illegal timer trade and national wildlife crime.
This event will be opened by the Scottish government
Cabinet Secretary for Environment, Climate Change
and Land Reform, Ms Roseanna Cunningham, with a
keynote address from the Secretary General of CITES,Mr John Scanlon.
Please visit the website for more information
and to register your attendance (https://-
www.wildlifeforensicscience.org/2017-meeting/),
discounts apply for early registration (until 31st
January 2017). Spread the word to colleagues you think
may be interested in this meeting.
Many thanks,
Lucy
Dr Lucy Webster Wildlife DNA Forensics - Diagnostics,
Wildlife & Molecular Biology Section Science and Ad-
vice for Scottish Agriculture (SASA) Roddinglaw Road,
Edinburgh, EH12 9FJ, UK
[Year of Pulses] <http://www.fao.org/pulses-2016/en/
>
SASA is a Division of the Scottish Government Agricul-
ture, Food and Rural Communities Directorate
Disclaimer
\Lucy.Webster@sasa.gsi.gov.uk"
<Lucy.Webster@sasa.gsi.gov.uk >
Groningen ESEB BiologicalClocks
Aug20-25
ESEB Symposium on \EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFI-
CANCE OF BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS"
Dear Colleagues,
we would like to invite you to attend or contribute to
the ESEB symposium
[S6] Evolutionary signicance of biological clocks at the
16th Congress of the European Society for Evolution-
ary Biology (ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25
August 2017.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Steven Reppert ( University of
Massachusetts) Takashi Yoshimura ( Nagoya University)
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Biological clocks are
found in almost all organisms and have evolved inde-
pendently many times, suggesting they must convey
considerable adaptive value. The adaptive value may
lie in (1) optimizing energy expenditure in a world full
of regular environmental changes, such as seasons, night
and day and tides, (2) synchronizing reproduction within
populations or with suitable environmental conditions
or (3) escaping predation. In surprisingly few casesJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 7
the adaptive value of biological clocks has been demon-
strated experimentally. However, there are a number
of examples where local adaptation of biological clocks
to environmental clines (e.g. latitudinal temperature
clines) gives indirect evidence for the adaptive value of
biological clocks. These cases often also allow to study
the evolutionary forces shaping biological clocks and
their target clock molecules. Our symposium will be
open to all evolutionary aspects of biological timekeep-
ing - from seasonal over diel to tidal and lunar rhythms.
We would like to showcase demonstrations of adaptive
values of biological clocks, but also oer a platform
for all other topics at the intersection of evolution and
biological timekeeping. We aim to initiate discussion
among evolutionary biologists and chronobiologists, in
order increase mutual understanding and to foster the
thinking about biological clocks in evolutionary terms.
Organizers: Roelof Hut (University of Groningen) To-
bias Kaiser (MPI Evolutionary Biology, Plon)
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
Abstracts can be submitted online here: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ Looking forward
to seeing you in Groningen! Roelof and Tobias
Dr. Tobias Kaiser
Max Planck Research Group \Biological Clocks" Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 j24306 Plon jGermany Phone
+49-4522-763-224 Homepage
Tobias Kaiser <kaiser@evolbio.mpg.de >
Groningen ESEB
CoevolAntagonisticEcoInteractions
Aug20-25
ESEB Symposium on \ Coevolution in antagonistic
ecological interactions "
Dear Colleagues,
Please be invited to the ESEB symposium
[S32] Coevolution in antagonistic ecological interac-
tions at the 16th Congress of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology in Groningen, Netherlands,
20-25 August 2017, http://www.eseb2017.nl/ . IN-
VITED SPEAKERS: Minus van Baalen ( Ecole Normale
Sup erieure, Paris) Candace Low (San Francisco State
University)ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The dead-
line for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Sub-
mit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-
abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Exploita-
tion strategies are at the core of consumer-resource
interactions: herbivores exploit plants, predators exploit
prey, and parasites exploit their hosts. Most theory on
the evolution of exploitation strategies has concentrated
on host-parasite interactions, modelling for example the
virulence-transmission trade-o or within-host competi-
tion between strains with dierent exploitation strate-
gies. However, this theory has rarely been applied to
other antagonistic interactions, such as plant-herbivore
or predator-prey interactions.
Recently, empirical work has made important progress in
identifying exploitation strategies outside host-parasite
systems. Herbivores, for example, not only express re-
sistance to plant defence, but have now been shown
to exploit their host through suppression of defence
in many systems. Within a community context, these
exploitation strategies have profoundly dierent con-
sequences: resistance aects competition with other
herbivores and apparent competition through natural
enemies, but suppression and induction of plant de-
fences directly aect food quality for others, such as kin,
competitors and even natural enemies. Given that sup-
pression of plant defences also benets other community
members, how could this exploitation strategy evolve?
This symposium aims to bring together empiricists and
theoreticians working on antagonistic coevolution in
parasite-host, predator-prey and plant-herbivore sys-
tems, addressing the evolution of exploitation strategies
in antagonistic ecological interactions.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Bram Knegt (University
of Amsterdam) Felipe Lemos (University of Amsterdam,
Federal University of Vi cosa)
Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!
Bram and Felipe
bramknegt@gmail.com8 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Groningen ESEB
CoevolutionHostsMicrobiome
Aug20-25
Dear All,
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: \[S22]
Coevolution of hosts and their microbiome" planned for
the *European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25th August 2017.*
Deadline for abstract submission : 10th January 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-
guidelines-/ Abstract:
The evolution of life-history traits in plants and ani-
mals has taken place in the midst of complex microbial
communities. Biology is undergoing a fundamental re-
shaping where the phenotypic expression of individuals
needs to be considered as the combined expression of the
host and its associated microbial genomes, dened as
the \holobiont" (i.e. the host and its microbiota). These
concepts have wide ranging implications and have led
to the realization that multicellular organisms coevolve
with their microbial symbionts. Although host-microbe
interactions can be understood by ecological processes,
much less is known about the signicance of evolution-
ary and eco-evolutionary processes. Given its complex
structure, understanding the specic roles, adaptabil-
ity, and functions provided by the microbiome is a new
scientic frontier. Recent developments in molecular
and statistical techniques have given holobiont studies
new impetus by allowing researchers to address novel
questions. We aim to discuss theoretical concepts and
empirical evidences on the role of the microbiota in
holobiont evolution. Specically: 1) How do microbiota
shape the holobiont phenotypic traits and their plastic-
ity? 2) Do we have evidence for coevolutionary processes
shaping the evolution of holobionts? 3) How can selec-
tion shape the evolution of the collective genomes of a
holobiont (the \hologenome")?
Invited speakers: Seth Bordenstein, Nancy Moran,
Philippe Vandenkoornhuys
Organizers:
Antton Alberdi, University of Copenhagen
Philipp Heeb, University of Toulouse-CNRS
Alexandre Jousset, Utrecht UniversityMorten Limborg University of Copenhagen
Irene B. Tieleman University of Groningen
Friman Ville, University of York
Zhong Wei, Nanjing Agricultural University
Philipp Heeb <philipp.heeb@univ-tlse3.fr >
Groningen ESEB EcoEvoDynamics
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and
attend our upcoming symposium on
\Eco-evolutionary dynamics"
which will be part of the 2017 Congress of the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). The confer-
ence will be taking place from August 20th - August
25th, 2017 in Groningen, the Netherlands. http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/home/ We are looking forward to
many exciting contributions and to a stimulating dis-
cussion with you!
The deadline for ABSTRACT SUBMISSION is January
10, 2017.
To submit abstracts online, please go to: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ Invited speakers:
Jonathan Pruitt (UC Santa Barbara)
Jen Schweitzer (University of Tennessee)
Isabel Smallegange (University of Amsterdam)
Andrew Hendry (McGill University)
Symposium description
[S24] Eco-evolutionary dynamics
In recent years, the scientic community has embraced
the fact that evolutionary change can occur at ecological
time scales and thereby interact with ongoing ecolog-
ical dynamics. While theoreticians are exploring new
ways to simultaneously account for ecological and evo-
lutionary dynamics (e.g. demographic models, fast-slow
dynamics), empiricists are investigating the drivers of
eco-evolutionary feedbacks (e.g. environmental varia-
tion, evolutionary history, phenotypic plasticity, and
community structure). To advance this \newest syn-
thesis", we bring together theoreticians and empiricists
focusing on the eco-evolutionary dynamics of biologicalJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 9
interactions across three levels of biological organiza-
tion: 1) interactions among coexisting individuals with
alternative life-history strategies, including personali-
ties and tactics; 2) interspecic interactions, including
host-parasite, prey-predator and symbiotic interactions;
and 3) interactions between phenotypic variation and
community or ecosystem characteristics. We invite con-
tributions on eco-(co)evolutionary dynamics providing
mechanistic, empirical and theoretical insights into eco-
evolutionary feedback loops. In this way, the sympo-
sium will aim to advance conceptual understanding of
eco-evolutionary dynamics in coevolution, speciation
and life-history evolution. In addition to the invited
speakers (Jen Schweitzer and Jonathan Pruitt), we have
also invited Isabel Smallegange and Andrew Hendry to
contribute to the symposium.
We hope to see you in Groningen next summer!
Best wishes from the organizers,
Franziska Brunner, University of Liverpool
Jacques Deere, University of Amsterdam
Martijn Egas, University of Amsterdam
Christophe Eizaguirre, Queen Mary University of Lon-
don
Joost Raeymaekers, Centre for Biodiversity Dynamics,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
If you have any further questions, please don't hesitate
to contact
Martijn Egas (egas@uva.nl) or Franziska Brunner
(franziska.brunner@liverpool.ac.uk)
{
Dr Franziska Brunner PDRA
Insitute of Integrative Biology University of Liverpool
Biosciences Building, Crown Street L69 7ZB Liverpool
Franziska.Brunner@liverpool.ac.uk https://-
fsbrunner.wordpress.com Franziska Brunner
<Franziska.Brunner@liverpool.ac.uk >
Groningen ESEB
EvolutionaryNetworks Aug20-25
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: \*S3:
**Network-based approaches in evolutionary biology and
medicine*" planned for the *European Society for Evo-
lutionary Biology meeting in Groningen, Netherlands,20-25th August, 2017. *
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-
guidelines-/ *Symposium information*: Network
theory, with a long history in mathematics and
computer science, is starting to play an exciting role in
evolutionary biology across multiple levels of biological
organization, from cellular to ecological systems. Rele-
vant and timely examples include: the study of diseases
as perturbations in complex intracellular networks
rather than single-gene abnormalities (Barabasi 2011),
the spatial and functional interactions of microbial
communities over time (Baldassano & Bassett, 2016),
epidemic outbreaks in animal networks (Shrestha 2015,
Lofgren 2014), and dynamic interactions between
large-scale neural circuits (Shi Gu, 2015, Bassett 2011),
to name only a few. This symposium will bring together
scientists working at the interface of network science
and evolutionary biology with two primary aims: (1) to
highlight the empirical and theoretical advances made
by applying network topology and dynamics theory
to biological data and evolutionary questions, and
(2) to discuss the design of new evolutionary network
models and the integration of network theory with
classic evolutionary models to answer fundamental
questions in biology. As methodologies evolve, greater
scientic interaction at the interface of network theory
and biological systems will be essential for predicting
temporal, spatially embedded, multi-scale networked
evolutionary systems and establishing an integrative
approach to evolutionary population dynamics and
disease.
Organizers: Oana Carja, Nicole Creanza
Invited speakers: Danielle Bassett, Laura Hindersin
Please contact Oana Carja (ocarja@sas.upenn.edu) with
further questions.
oana.carja@gmail.com
Groningen ESEB ExptEvolution
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues, We would like to invite you to sympo-
sium [S15] \Experimental evolution in complex environ-
ments" that will take place at the 16th Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in
Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017. Organisms
live in complex communities in which they are inuenced
by the social connections to their peers, which shape10 EvolDir January 1, 2017
their environment. Hence adaptation to an environment
is highly inuenced by the abiotic environment as well
as the social interactions with community members. Ex-
perimental evolution provides a superb approach for
studying how social as well as abiotic environmental
interactions aect the adaptation to novel and hetero-
geneous environments. In addition, it aids our under-
standing of the intricate connection between the abiotic
environment, the individual organisms and their com-
munities that inhabit it. Importantly, the community
structure signicantly inuences the evolution of social
interactions that could resolve in cooperation, mutualis-
tic division of labor or competition and conict. Recent
advances in experimental evolution revolutionized our
understanding of the principles underlying population
dynamics in heterogeneous environments. The aim of
this symposium is to bring together empirical and theo-
retical contributions that aim to understand the impact
of the environment-mediated selective forces driving the
evolution of microbes and other model systems in the
laboratory and under natural settings. Invited speak-
ers: Michael Brockhurst (University of York), Ivana
Gudelj (University of Exeter); Organizers: Akos Ko-
vacs (Technical University of Denmark), Marjon de Vos
(Wageningen University). The deadline for abstract
submission is 10 January 2017. More information can
be found at http://bit.ly/2ge3LOo .We look forward
to receiving your intriguing story on this topic and to
welcoming you at the conference and our symposium.
Marjon de Vos and Akos Kovacs
Akos T Kovacs <akos.t.kovacs@gmail.com >
Groningen ESEB
FitnessInSocialEnvironments
Aug20-25
Dear colleagues,
We would like to invite contributions to our sympo-
sium at ESEB 2017: \Fitness and evolution in a social
environment: from theory to reality"
at the 16th Congress of the European Society for Evo-
lutionary Biology to be held in Groningen, The Nether-
lands 20-25 August 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/ http://www.eseb2017.nl/-
sub/s9-tness-and-evolution-in-a-socia/ Symposium
Summary
Summary: An individual's tness will be shaped bymultiple aspects of social interactions, including eects
of competitive interactions, parental care and parent-
ospring conict, cooperative breeding and inbreeding.
Because variation in tness is the raw ingredient that
drives natural selection and consequent evolution, how
best to measure it in social environments poses a critical
challenge for evolutionary biology. This challenge has
been approached dierently by dierent elds. Social
evolution theory has well-developed models of inclusive
tness, but these often assume simplied genetic un-
derpinnings. Recent advances in quantitative genetics
have explored indirect genetic eects of con-specics on
phenotypic diversity, but the implications of variation in
inclusive tness for evolutionary dynamics are unclear.
Analyses of life-history trait variation reveal dierent
selection pressures if tness is assessed by contributions
across multiple generations, again with complex impli-
cations. Wish this symposium we hope to encourage
integrated conceptual and empirical means of estimating
tness that bring together currently disparate subelds.
The symposium will showcase recent advances in under-
standing variation in tness, and resulting evolution, in
social environments. Specically we aim to: (1) stim-
ulate discussion and communication between theoreti-
cians and empiricists working on a diversity of systems;
(2) evaluate alternative methods for measuring tness;
and (3) illustrate the causes and consequences of varia-
tion in tness in social environments for evolutionary
dynamics.
Invited Speakers: Piter Bijma, (Wageningen University)
Florence Debarre (Centre for Interdisciplinary Research
in Biology, Paris)
Organizers Loeske Kruuk (Australian National Univer-
sity) Jane Reid (University of Aberdeen)
We invite submissions for both oral presentations and
posters. The deadline for abstract submission is 10 Jan-
uary 2017. http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/
We hope to see you there!
Professor Loeske Kruuk Division of Evolution and Ecol-
ogy Research School of Biology The Australian National
University ACT 2601, Australia Phone: +61 2 6125 6931
Loeske.Kruuk@anu.edu.au www.biology.anu.edu.au/-
Loeske Kruuk loeske.kruuk@anu.edu.auJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 11
Groningen ESEB FitnessLandscape-
sPredictingEvolution
Aug20-25
Dear evolDir community,
we would like to remind you that the deadline for ab-
stract submission for the upcoming conference of the
\European Society for Evolutionary Biology" (ESEB
2017) to be held in Groningen (Netherlands) from
20 to 25 August 2017 (for more details see http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/) is approaching soon (*January 10th
2017*).
In this context, we would like to invite you all
to submit an abstract to our symposium on \Fit-
ness landscapes, big data and the predictability
of evolution" (http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s14-tness-
landscapes-big-data-an/). Abstracts can be submitted
here: http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ [S14]
Fitness landscapes, big data and the predictability of
evolution
Evolutionary biology has become increasingly powerful
in inferring past evolutionary processes from patterns
in present-day genomes. However, forecasting evolu-
tion's future routes remains an exciting intellectual chal-
lenge with substantial implications for global health
and species conservation. The concept of the tness
landscape has been central to recent studies of the pre-
dictability of evolution, and has inspired evolutionary bi-
ologists and mathematicians alike. Combining microbial
experimental evolution with next-generation sequencing,
eorts have now been made to rigorously test for the
repeatability and dynamics of evolution. At the same
time, theoretical studies try to provide the necessary
navigational tools for exploring the terra incognita of
molecular evolutionary biology. This symposium aims
to identify the key issues and challenges { both method-
ological and theoretical - to advance our understanding
of the predictability of evolution, particularly in the
light of \big data". We anticipate that insights from
our symposium will stimulate and direct future studies
of the predictability of evolution. With next-generation
sequencing on board, tness landscapes are heading for
new shores: It's now time to check whether \there be
dragons"!
Organizers: Santiago Elena, In^ es Fragata, Sebastian
Matuszewski, Arjan de VisserInvited speakers: Michael L assig, Lilia Perfeito
Please feel free to contact sebas-
tian.matuszewski[at]ep.ch if you have any questions.
Looking forward to seeing you all in Groningen, Sebas-
tian Matuszewski
\sebastian.matuszewski@ep.ch"
<sebastian.matuszewski@ep.ch >
Groningen ESEB
GeneExpressionEvolution Aug20-25
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: '[S19]
Evolution of gene expression regulation' planned for the
*European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting in
Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25th August, 2017. *
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-
guidelines-/ More than four decades have passed since
it was rst suggested that gene expression regulation
variation could play a signicant role in the phenotypic
divergence between chimpanzees and humans. Ever
since, there has been an impressive and fruitful eort to
characterize the molecular basis of regulatory variation
within and between species. However, until recently,
'regulatory variation' has been used synonymously
with 'dierences in mRNA levels'. In recent years,
though, new high-throughput sequencing technologies
have oered us a window into fundamental questions
about the evolution of post-transcriptional dynamics.
With the introduction of methods such as ribosome
proling (RiboSeq) and mass spectroscopy (mass-spec),
we can now measure post-transcriptional regulation in
a variety of dierent conditions. These technologies are
now being used to study questions from how regulatory
variation evolves within and between species. Moreover,
there exist exciting avenues in applying these methods
to microbial evolution experiments to study how gene
expression regulation evolves during adaptation. Other
examples include new methods and insights into the
evolutionary role of non-coding RNAs, which have been
uncovered as key regulators of gene expression at the
post-transcriptional level, or the evolution of protein
post-translational modications that can inuence their
function, activity or stability. Together, these studies
have given us unprecedented insight into the evolution
of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation.
This symposium will bring together researchers that
develop and employ high-throughput, quantitative12 EvolDir January 1, 2017
techniques to measure gene expression regulation with
the goal of understanding the molecular landscape of
complex phenotypes.
Organizers: Oana Carja, Joshua Plotkin, Premal Shah
Inivited speakers: Leonid Kruglyak, Judit Villen
Please contact Oana Carja (ocarja@sas.upenn.edu) with
further questions.
oana.carja@gmail.com
Groningen ESEB
GenomicsOfAdaptation Aug20-25
Dear All,
We would like to invite abstract submissions for our
upcoming symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation
that will take place as part of the 16th Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). The
conference will take place from August 20th - August
25th, 2017 in Groningen, the Netherlands.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Genomics of Adapta-
tion [S16] Model organisms for life-history research are
mainly studied in the lab where functional genetics is
assessable. In general, however, knowledge about their
eco-evolutionary dynamics, such as biotic interactions,
is rare. By contrast, in organisms for which the ecology
and adaptation strategies in the eld are well known,
we typically lack the appropriate genetic tools to investi-
gate functionality. Advances in genomics and statistics
as well as investments in evolutionary model organisms
are now providing access to putatively adaptive genome-
wide variation within species from across the tree of life.
In this symposium, we focus on integrating life-history
biology, genetics and evolutionary ecology in the ge-
nomics era. We wish to (1) highlight the role of genetic
architecture of complex traits, such as adaptations to
biotic interactions or life-history traits; (2) contrast this
to morphological traits which are generally thought to
have a less complex genetic architecture; and (3) dis-
cuss the opportunities and drawbacks of specic model
systems.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Josephine Pemberton, Uni-
versity of Cambridge (http://pemberton.bio.ed.ac.uk)
Peter Tin, University of Minnesota (http://-
cbs.umn.edu/tin-lab/)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION The deadline for abstract
submission is January 10, 2017. For more informationand to submit abstracts online, please visit: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ We look forward to
an exciting symposium and seeing you all in Groningen!
Sincerely, Ben Blackman, UC Berkeley Maaike de Jong,
University of Bristol Bart Pannebakker, Wageningen
University Noah Whiteman, UC Berkeley Jelle Zand-
veld, Wageningen University
Benjamin Blackman Department of Plant and Microbial
Biology University of California, Berkeley 361 Koshland
Hall Berkeley, CA 94720
Phone: 510.664.7807 E-mail: bkblack-
man@berkeley.edu Web: http://nature.berkeley.edu/-
blackmanlab \bkblackman@berkeley.edu"
<bkblackman@berkeley.edu >
Groningen ESEB
MutualismParasitism Aug20-25
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON THE MUTUALIST-
PARASITE CONTINUUM
Dear colleagues:
We would like to invite you to contribute to and/or
attend the ESEB symposium
\ Evolution across the mutualist-parasite continuum "
[S31]
which will take place at the 16th Congress of the Eu-
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in
Groningen, The Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Symbioses, and other close-knit species relationships, are
ubiquitous and important across all ecosystems. Such
species interactions vary widely, from costly relation-
ships which drive rapid antagonistic coevolution, to ben-
ecial relationships which facilitate functional diversi-
cation. Rather than two extremes however, these inter-
actions should be viewed as a continuum between mutu-
alism and parasitism. This conceptual framework unites
researchers studying host-parasite and host-mutualist
interactions and explores the potential for transitions
along the continuum. Our topic is timely and relevant
to the ESEB community. It has broad evolutionary rele-
vance for which many new insights have been generated
in the last few years. This symposium will bring to-
gether researchers studying the evolution of parasitism
and mutualism to: 1) highlight the role of these speciesJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 13
interactions in shaping an organism's evolutionary biol-
ogy; 2) emphasize the importance of linking phenotypic
and state-of-the-art genomics analysis in revealing these
eects; 3) bring together experimental evolution and
eld-based approaches in studying evolution across the
continuum and 4) assess the role of ecology in shaping
the evolutionary stability of these systems. Many im-
portant concepts in evolutionary biology will be covered,
from coevolution, genetic diversity, virulence, and sex,
to ecological networks. Our invited speakers are at the
forefront of research on both sides of the continuum
and use natural systems while combining genomics and
experimental evolution approaches.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s31-evolution-across-the-
mutualist-/ INVITED SPEAKERS:
Hinrich Schulenberg (CAU Kiel, D)
2nd speaker TBA
ORGANIZERS:
Ana Duarte (University of Exeter, UK)
Francisco Encinas-Viso (CSIRO, AU)
Ellie Harrison (University of York, UK)
Aniek Ivens (The Rockefeller University, USA / Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam, NL)
Kayla King (University of Oxford, UK)
We invite submissions for oral and/or poster contribu-
tions; we are interested in both empirical and theoretical
work covering the ecology and evolution of species in-
teractions along the parasitism-mutualism continuum.
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ We are very
much looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!
Ana, Fran, Ellie, Kayla and Aniek
Aniek Ivens, PhD Laboratory of Social Evo-
lution and Behavior The Rockefeller Univer-
sity New York, NY (t) +1-212-327-7852 (e)
aivens@rockefeller.edu (w) www.aniek.nyc Aniek
Ivens <aivens@mail.rockefeller.edu >Groningen ESEB
NonGeneticInheritance Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues:
We are pleased to invite you to submit abstracts and
attend the ESEB symposium
\Evolutionary implications of transposable elements, epi-
genetics, and non-genetic inheritance" [S20]
that will take place at the 16th Congress of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology in Groningen,
The Netherlands, 20-25th of August 2017.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Prof. Brandon Gaut (Univer-
sity of California, USA) Prof. Tobias Uller (Lund Uni-
versity, Sweden)
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: It is now well known
that rapid evolution and adaptation to new environ-
ments is not solely driven by variation at chromosomal
gene loci, but that it is also inuenced by various cytonu-
clear factors and by non-genetic inheritance. Epigenetic
modications and cytoplasmic elements can directly
aect morphological, physiological and behavioural phe-
notypic variation across generations. Also, transpos-
able elements that are ubiquitous sequences in virtu-
ally all genomes may have a strong impact on host
gene regulation, which could be mediated by epigenetic
modications. The interaction between transposable
elements, epigenetics and the environment may consid-
erably increase the degree of phenotypic variation in
natural populations, thus allowing for rapid local adap-
tation. Yet, the mechanisms underlying non-genetic
inheritance and the eects of epigenetic modications
by transposable elements remain unclear. This sympo-
sium will bring together theoreticians and empiricists
who are interested in the interplay of environmental
factors, transposable elements, cytoplasmic components
and transgenerational epigenetic changes. The aim is to
better understand the nature of transposable elements
and non-genetic inheritance and their impact on evo-
lutionary dynamics. http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s20-
evolutionary-implications-of-tra/ SYMPOSIUM OR-
GANIZERS: Josefa Gonzalez (Institute of Evolution-
ary Biology, CSIC-UPF, Spain) Willian Silva (Uppsala
University, Sweden) Foteini Spagopoulou (Uppsala Uni-
versity, Sweden) Cristina Vieira (University of Lyon,
France)
We would like to invite abstract submissions of oral14 EvolDir January 1, 2017
and/or poster presentations on both empirical and the-
oretical work focused on the interplay between environ-
mental factors and transposable elements or heritable
non-genetic components.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The dead-
line for abstract submission is the 10th of Jan-
uary 2017. http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/-
abstract-guidelines-/ We are looking forward to receiv-
ing your submissions and to seeing you in Groningen!
Foteini, Willian, Cristina and Josefa
Foteini Spagopoulou PhD student at Maklakov Lab
Animal Ecology Department of Ecology and Evolution
Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala University Norby-
vagen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden
E-mail: Foteini.Spagopoulou@ebc.uu.se Oce: +46 18-
471 2930
Foteini Spagopoulou <foteini.spagopoulou@ebc.uu.se >
Groningen ESEB ParasiteEvolution
Aug20-25
ESEB Symposium on \PARASITE EVOLUTION IN
RESPONSE TO TREATMENT"
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to invite you to attend or contribute to the
ESEB symposium [S1] Parasite evolution in response
to treatment at the 16th Congress of the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology in Groningen, The
Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Pleuni Pennings (San Francisco
State University) Sebastian Bonhoeer (ETH Z urich)
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Parasites evolve in re-
sponse to our attempts to control them. Drug resis-
tance, vaccine-driven strain replacement, and parasite
life-history shifts are all examples of evolutionary mech-
anisms by which the benets of our interventions are
reduced. Understanding the drivers and limits of par-
asite evolution in response to interventions is essential
for predicting evolutionary consequences in advance and
dening best practices for disease management. This
symposium will highlight work that seeks to generate
this understanding and oer new insight for the man-
agement of infectious diseases. In particular, we wel-
come submissions of novel theory and empirical work
investigating the coupling between epidemiological andevolutionary dynamics, the consequences of dierent
spatio-temporal treatment strategies, and the short-
and long-term evolution of parasite traits.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: S ebastien Lion (C ~AF~A,
Montpellier, France) Nicole Mideo (University of
Toronto)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The dead-
line for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Sub-
mit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-
abstracts/ Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!
Seb & Nicole
Nicole Mideo Assistant Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology University of Toronto 25
Willcocks St. Toronto, ON M5S 3B2
Tel: 416 978 1316
\nicole.mideo@utoronto.ca"
<nicole.mideo@utoronto.ca >
Groningen ESEB
PhyloInferenceGenomicEra
Aug20-25
Dear all,
We are excited to invite you to submit your abstract
and attend the symposium:
\Phylogenetics in the Genomic Era"
to be held at the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology meeting in Groningen, The Netherlands (20-25th
August 2017).
http://www.eseb2017.nl/ http://www.eseb2017.nl/-
sub/s30-phylogenetics-in-the-genomic-er/ INVITED
SPEAKERS: Scott Edwards (Harvard University, USA)
Ziheng Yang (University College London, UK)
ABSTRACT: Accurate inference of species relationships
is crucial to address fundamental questions in evolution-
ary biology. Empiricists have greatly benetted from
the continual ease of generating sequence data for phy-
logenetic inference and can now employ genome-scale
datasets to infer the evolutionary history of clades across
the tree of life. However, the availability of large phy-
logenomic datasets are not a panacea for all phylogenetic
issues and these large datasets often present new chal-
lenges. In particular, individual genetic markers can
have discordant phylogenetic histories due to processesJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 15
such as incomplete lineage sorting, introgression and se-
lection, potentially clouding the inference of organismal
relationships. Most contemporary species tree estima-
tion methods aim to model observed incongruence using
the multi-species coalescent but these approaches often
assume incomplete lineage sorting as the single source
of discord and are computationally exhaustive or rely
on the precision of individual gene trees. The devel-
opment of novel approaches to account for sources of
phylogenetic incongruence therefore remains a thriving
area of research. Given the vigorous state of the eld, it
is thus timely to discuss recent advances and remaining
challenges of species tree estimation in a symposium
where we invite both theoreticians and empiricists.
ORGANIZERS: Mozes Blom (Swedish Museum of Nat-
ural History, Sweden) Matthew Fujita (University of
Texas at Arlington, USA)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The dead-
line for abstract submission is the 10th of Jan-
uary 2017. http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/-
abstract-guidelines-/ Please contact Mozes Blom
(mozes.blom@gmail.com) if you have any questions!
Best,
Matt and Mozes
mozes.blom@gmail.com
Groningen ESEB RapidEvol
Aug20-25
Dear Colleagues,
We extend an invitation to our upcoming ESEB 2017
[S23] symposium entitled Rapid Evolution Revisited.
The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB),
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017.
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Times are changing,
and our studies in evolutionary biology must change
along with it. Many studies now demonstrate that nat-
ural populations can evolve at ecological timescales (i.e.
across a few generations), which is particularly evident
in adaptation to environmental change. At the same
time, some of the best model systems to study evolu-
tion in action have demonstrated that predicting the
magnitude and direction of evolution from estimatesof selection is less than straightforward. The increased
availability of genomic and long-term data in non-model
organisms, and novel advances in statistical and techno-
logical methods, can provide new solutions to this puzzle.
These advances acknowledge that our ability to predict
evolution in natural populations can be improved by
considering determinants of the whole phenotype (from
genetic and plastic to transgenerational and epigenetic
eects), and also eco-evolutionary feedback processes.
Yet in many systems these novel frameworks and tools
remain under-used. The goal of this symposium is to
synthesize these into a more integrative framework for
the study of evolution in nature; a timely topic given
the pressing challenge of predicting responses to global
environmental change. .
Organizers: Organizers: Swanne Gordon (University of
Jyvaskyla), Andres Lopez-Sepulcre (CNRS-Universite
Pierre et Marie Curie), and Katja Rasanen (Eawag,
Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technol-
ogy)
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
Abstracts can be submitted online here: http://-
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ Please join us,
Swanne, Andres and Katja
Andr es L opez-Sepulcre <lopezsepulcre@gmail.com >
Groningen ESEB Recombination
Aug20-25
We invite you to submit an Abstract to our ESEB 2017
symposium exploring the causes and consequences of
variation in recombination rate in sexually reproducing
organisms.
[S17] Evolutionary causes and consequences of varia-
tion in recombination rate http://www.eseb2017.nl/-
sub/s17-evolutionary-causes-and-consequ/ INVITED
SPEAKERS: Abraham Korol, University of Haifa, Is-
rael. (http://evolution.haifa.ac.il/index.php/people/-
203-abraham-korol-ph-d) Irene Tiemann-Boege, Jo-
hannes Kelper University, Germany. (http://-
www.jku.at/biophysics/content/e54633/e97350/)
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Recombination is para-
doxical, it can create novel genetic combinations that
natural selection can act on, and thus facilitate adapta-
tion, but it can also break apart favourable combinations
of alleles. In addition, recombination can play a critical
role during meiosis, with recombination events regu-16 EvolDir January 1, 2017
lated to ensure accurate segregation of chromosomes.
Thus, tight regulation of recombination is expected,
but variable rates of recombination may be favoured
in dierent environments or contexts. While the role
of recombination in the evolution of sex has been the
focus of much empirical and theoretical work, investiga-
tion on how conicting selection pressures are resolved,
how recombination rate evolves, and what impact this
has on evolutionary processes within sexually repro-
ducing organisms has received less attention. Recent
advances in DNA sequencing and bioinformatics has
provided unprecedented opportunities to characterise
variation in recombination rate. Now is a pertinent time
to highlight (i) rapidly developing approaches to esti-
mate recombination rate in the genomics era and (ii) our
growing understanding of the causes and consequences
of variation in recombination rates; including how re-
combination rate variation responds to selection, how
recombination varies between individuals, sexes, popu-
lations, species and in response to the environment, and
how recombination inuences the processes of speciation
and adaptation.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The dead-
line for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Sub-
mit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-
for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Su-
san Johnston, University of Edinburgh (https://-
susanejohnston.wordpress.com/) Anna Santure, Univer-
sity of Aukland (https://unidirectory.auckland.ac.nz/-
prole/a-santure) Jessica Stapley, ETH Zurich (http://-
jessicastapley.com/)
Jessica Stapley Fellow, Adaptation to a Changing Envi-
ronment (ACE)
Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Department of
Environmental Sciences Universit atstrasse 16 ETH Zen-
trum, CHN G 31.2 CH-8092 Z urich
email: jessica.stapley@env.ethz.ch web: http://-
jessicastapley.com/ twitter: @jessstapley Tel: +41-44-
632 28399
\jessica.stapley@env.ethz.ch"
<jessica.stapley@env.ethz.ch >Groningen ESEB
RecombRateVariation Aug20-25
Dear all,
we are delighted to invite submissions to our symposium
\S17: Evolutionary causes and consequences of variation
in recombination rate" to be held at the European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology meeting in Groningen,
Netherlands from 20-25th August, 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s17-evolutionary-causes-
and-consequ/ Abstract: Recombination is paradoxical,
it can create novel genetic combinations that natural
selection can act on, and thus facilitate adaptation,
but it can also break apart favourable combinations of
alleles. In addition, recombination can play a critical
role during meiosis, with recombination events regulated
to ensure accurate segregation of chromosomes. Thus,
tight regulation of recombination is expected, but
variable rates of recombination may be favoured in
dierent environments or contexts. While the role of
recombination in the evolution of sex has been the focus
of much empirical and theoretical work, investigation
on how conicting selection pressures are resolved, how
recombination rate evolves, and what impact this has
on evolutionary processes within sexually reproducing
organisms has received less attention. Recent advances
in DNA sequencing and bioinformatics has provided
unprecedented opportunities to characterise variation
in recombination rate. Now is a pertinent time to
highlight (i) rapidly developing approaches to estimate
recombination rate in the genomics era and (ii) our
growing understanding of the causes and consequences
of variation in recombination rates; including how
recombination rate variation responds to selection,
how recombination varies between individuals, sexes,
populations, species and in response to the environment,
and how recombination inuences the processes of
speciation and adaptation.
Organizers: Philine Feulner, Susan Johnston, Anna
Santure, Carole Smadja and Jessica Stapley
Invited speakers: Abraham Korol (https://-
scholar.google.co.il/citations?hl=3Den&user=-
3Dfoio3YsAAAAJ&view op=list works&sortby=-
pubdate) and Irene Tiemann-Boege
(https://scholar.google.co.il/citations?user=-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 17
3DO6lGxtUAAAAJ&hl=3Den)
Please contact Anna Santure (asanture@gmail.com) if
you have any questions!
asanture@gmail.com
Groningen ESEB SpatialEvolution
Aug20-25
ESEB Symposium on \Spatial Evolution"
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to invite you to submit an abstract to
our symposium [S25] on 'Spatial Evolution' at the 16th
Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s25-spatial-evolution-
although-disp/ http://www.eseb2017.nl/ INVITED
SPEAKERS:
Hanna Kokko (University of Zurich)
Stephane Joost (EPFL, Lausanne)
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
Submit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/-
call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Although dispersal is one of the four mechanisms of evo-
lutionary change, the explicit spatial context in which
evolution occurs is frequently ignored. In addition, the
dynamics of dispersal are important as well, as the abil-
ity to disperse itself may rapidly evolve and is subject to
eco-evolutionary feedbacks. A particularly potent tool
for elucidating spatial evolution is genomic data, which
can be used to accurately assess (ne-scale) spatial ge-
netic variation. Together with an improved understand-
ing of spatial evolution, this helps us better understand
applied processes such as biogeography, climate-change
related range shifts, biological invasions and the spread
of disease. Our symposium provides a platform for biol-
ogists studying evolution in a spatial context. We invite
contributions from theory, experiments and compara-
tive work considering all levels of organization, from
individuals to communities, and particularly encourage
studies incorporating multiple approaches. We will show-
case the diversity of approaches (statistical approaches,
modelling, experimental evolution, genetics, spatially
informed genomics) as well as model and non-model
organisms used in the study of spatial evolution (frommicrobes to vertebrates and digital organisms). This
inclusive approach is a major precondition for promot-
ing interaction and reaching synthesis in this quickly
advancing eld and designing future research avenues.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Emanuel Fronhofer (Eawag & University of Zurich)
Flora Jay (CNRS, Paris-Sud University)
Benjamin Peter (University of Chicago)
Marjo Saastamoinen (University Helsinki)
Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!
Dr Marjo Saastamoinen
Academy Research Fellow
Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Research
Department of Biosciences
PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1)
FI-00014 University of Helsinki
FINLAND
tel. + 358 (0)50 448 4471
http://www.mv.helsinki./home/msaastam/ \Saasta-
moinen, Marjo A K" <marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki. >
Groningen
EvolutionMedicineSociety Aug18-21
Abstract submission is now open for The International
Society for Evolution, Medicine & Public Health Third
Annual Meeting will be August 18-21, 2017 in Gronin-
gen, Netherlands, in conjunction with the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meeting Au-
gust 21-25.
The deadline for abstract submissions is February 15.
Registration for both meetings will open in February.
Keynote speakers include Svante P a abo, Linda Par-
tridge, Stephen Stearns, Marian Joels, Mervyn Singer,
Sylvia Cremer, Francisco Ubeda, and Peer Bork. Details
are at the ISEMPH Website.
Full information at https://evolutionarymedicine.org/-
2017-isemph-meeting/ rmnesse@gmail.com18 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Hannover Germany
EcoEvoDynamcis Oct9-13
Conference: Flexibility matters: Interplay between trait
diversity and ecological dynamics using aquatic commu-
nities as model systems
The conference will address trait-based ecology with a
focus on biomass-trait feedbacks and eco-evolutionary
dynamics typically arising from trophic interactions. We
aim to bridge between theoretically guided empirical
eld and laboratory studies and data-informed devel-
opment of theory and modelling. The meeting will
provide opportunities to exchange ideas and results
with members of the DFG funded Priority Program
DynaTrait and guests through a series of contributed
and invited talks, poster sessions and small working
groups. The meeting focuses on aquatic systems, but
other systems are welcome as well if results are su-
ciently generalizable. For more information and list
of speakers see http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/dynatrait/-
Site2/DynaTrait Meeting 2017.html . The meeting will
take place 9th-13th October 2017 in Hannover, Germany.
If you are interested in joining us, please contact Alice
Boit (alice@boit.net) .
Organizers and Contact Ursula Gaedke (University Pots-
dam) & Lutz Becks (MPI Evolutionary Biology)
Lutz Becks <lbecks@evolbio.mpg.de >
Italy Speciation Feb19-24
The full program is now available for SPECIATION
2017, a Gordon Research Conference (GRC) dedicated
exclusively to speciation research:
https://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=16903 The
conference - the world's largest of its kind - will be
held at the Renaissance Tuscany Il Ciocco Resort &
Spa in Italy during the week of February 19-24, 2017.
For the rst time, the conference will be preceded by a
two-day Gordon Research Seminar (GRS), co-chaired by
Amanda Hund and Laurel Symes, which oers unique
opportunities for graduate students and early-careerscientists to learn and get involved at the forefronts of
modern speciation research.
The GRC conferences on speciation raise to a trans-
Atlantic level a tradition of international conferences on
speciation research that was initiated by the European
Research Networking Programme 'Frontiers of Speci-
ation Research'. The three conferences held thus far,
in 2010, 2013, and 2015, have helped facilitate bridge-
building between disparate approaches to speciation
research and have attracted hundreds of participants
from all facets of speciation research.
Registration for SPECIATION 2017 will continue until
the venue's capacity is lled. At the time of writing, we
can make only a few additional acceptances before we
have to waitlist applicants so please apply soon if you
are hoping to join us.
With many thanks and best wishes,
~Ake Br annstr om & Rebecca Safran
rebecca.safran@colorado.edu
Karkow EvolutionaryMyrmecology
Apr21-24
Dear All,
7th Central European Workshop of Myrmecology web-
site is online, please visit: cewm-krakow.com
Meeting is to be held in Krakow, Poland, from April
21 to April 24, 2017. Our goal is to provide a forum
for the exchange of ideas, methods, and results in all
evolutionary and ecological aspects of myrmecology.
Krzysiek Miler, IES JU <krzysztof.miler@uj.edu.pl >
Krzysztof Miler <krzysztof.miler@uj.edu.pl >
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9
AbstractsFinalReminder
Don't forget to register for the 2017 Oikos meeting in
Lund! Registration without abstract submission is pos-
sible until January 16th, but the deadline for abstract
submission is Monday December 12th - that's in justJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 19
a few days! We hope to be able to accommodate all
submissions as either talks or posters.
Register here: http://oikos2017.event.lu.se/registration
The Swedish Oikos Congress 2017 will take place 7th
- 9th February 2017 in Lund. Venue for the meeting
will be Paleastra, in the heart of the city. A conference
dinner will be held on the evening of February 8 ^th ,
and there will be pre-congress workshops on Monday
February 6th. The meeting is open to all ecologists and
evolutionary biologists regardless of subdiscipline, and
we have a wide breadth of talks and plenaries!
{ Dr. Jessica K. Abbott Senior University Lec-
turer Department of Biology Section for Evolution-
ary Ecology Lund University S olvegatan 37 223 62
Lund, Sweden Phone: 046 222 9304 Website: http://-
jessicakabbott.com \It is those who know little, and
not those who know much, who so positively assert that
this or that problem will never be solved by science." -
Charles Darwin, Descent of Man
Jessica Abbott <jessica.abbott@biol.lu.se >
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9
AbstractSubmission
Don't forget to register for the 2017 Oikos meeting in
Lund! Registration without abstract submission is pos-
sible until January 16th, but the deadline for abstract
submission is Monday December 12th - that's in less
than two weeks! We hope to be able to accommodate
all submissions as either talks or posters.
Register here: http://oikos2017.event.lu.se/registration
The Swedish Oikos Congress 2017 will take place 7 ^th
-9^th February 2017 in Lund. Venue for the meeting
will be Paleastra, in the heart of the city. A conference
dinner will be held on the evening of February 8 ^th ,
and there will be pre-congress workshops on Monday
February 6th. The meeting is open to all ecologists and
evolutionary biologists regardless of subdiscipline, and
we hope to have a wide breadth of talks and plenaries!
Dr. Jessica K. Abbott Senior University Lecturer De-
partment of Biology Section for Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Lund University Solvegatan 37 223 62 Lund,
Sweden Phone: 046 222 9304 Website: http://-
jessicakabbott.com \It is those who know little, and
not those who know much, who so positively assert that
this or that problem will never be solved by science." -
Charles Darwin, Descent of Man\jessica.abbott@biol.lu.se" <jessica.abbott@biol.lu.se >
Marseilles 21stEvolutionaryBiology
Sep26-29 Info
Dear All the information about the
21st evolutionary biology meeting at Marseilles can be
found now on the aeeb web site :
aeeb.fr
Please note the early registration dead line
best regards
Pierre
Pierre Pontarotti DR CNRS EBM unit e I2M 7373
AMU/CNRS
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
Mexico CaveshAdaptation
Mar12-15
We are pleased to announce that the 5th Annual
Astyanax International Meeting for Cavesh will be held
March 12-15, 2017, in Santiago de Quer etaro, Mexico.
The meeting will feature many great talks about cavesh
and adaptation to novel and extreme environments in
general. We are happy to announce that Katie Peichel
will be our keynote speaker to present her work how
sticklebacks adapt to their environment. The meetings
are usually very informal with a limited number of par-
ticipants and enough time for social interactions to give
students the ability to interact with faculty and vice
versa. Student prices are subsidized by the faculty rates
and very aordable. Mexican resident students can even
attend for free.
Our venue will be the lovely Hotel Misi on Juriquilla
Quer etaro. This hotel oers rst class accommodation
in a renovated eighteenth century farmhouse north of the
city of Queretaro, surrounded by gardens and buildings
that evoke the colonial Mexico.
The meeting will be followed by an optional caving trip20 EvolDir January 1, 2017
to the Sierra del Abra biosphere reserve, March 15-18,
2017 for a limited number of participants.
Please visit our website for more information. http://-
www.stowers.org/aim2017/home We hope to see you
there! AIM 2017 Organizers caven@stowers.org
\Williams, Stacey" <snw@stowers.org >
PorquerollesIsle France
MathEvolBiol Jun12-16
MCEB - Mathematical and Computational Evolution-
ary Biology 12-16 June 2017 - Porquerolles Island, South
of France.
Webpage: http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/ Pre-
registration deadline: February 27th
Notication to applicants: March 17th
Final list of attendees: April 17th
Registation page : http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/-
register.php Scope: Mathematical and computational
tools and concepts form an essential basis for modern
evolutionary studies. The goal of the MCEB conference
(at its 9th edition) is to bring together scientists with
diverse backgrounds to present recent advances and dis-
cuss open problems in the eld of mathematical and
computational evolutionary biology.
The theme of this year's edition will be \Methods for
integrative evolutionary biology: various sources of data,
various scales of evolution", which includes the analy-
sis of heterogeneous data (molecular, phenotypic, eco-
logical...), dierent time scales (from recent times to
the origin of life), dierent spatial scales (from local
to worldwide range), the combination of phylogenetics
and population genetics, multidisciplinary approaches,
etc.. General concepts, models, methods and algorithms
will also be presented and discussed, just as during the
previous conference editions.
Where and when: Porquerolles Island, near Hyeres, in
the South of France, 12-16 June 2017.
Cost: Conference fees including accommodation for four
nights, meals, coee breaks, etc., will be around 450euro,
all inclusive. PhD students and postdocs would benet
of nancial support.
Keynote speakers:
Elizabeth Allman (Department of Mathematics and
Statistics, University of Alaska Fairbanks) http://-www.dms.uaf.edu/%7Eeallman/ Guy Baele (Rega
Institute / KU Leuven - Evolutionary and Compu-
tational Virology Section) https://rega.kuleuven.be/-
cev/ecv/lab-members/GuyBaele.html Stephane Dray
(Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie Evolutive (LBBE),
Lyon) http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/members/dray/cv.php
Barbara Holland (Theoretical Phylogenetics Group,
School of Mathematics and Physics, University of
Tasmania) http://www.maths.utas.edu.au/People/-
Holland/ Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (Institute of
Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern) http://-
www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch/about us/team/researchers/-
assprof drmalaspinas anna sapfo/index eng.html Yun
Song (Calabi-Simons Chair in Mathematics and Biology,
Departments of Mathematics and Biology, University
of Pennsylvania) http://www.sas.upenn.edu/ ~yss/
Marc Suchard (David Geen School of Medicine at
UCLA, Departments of Biomathematics, Biostatistics
and Human Genetics) http://faculty.biomath.ucla.edu/-
msuchard/ For more information, visit the website at:
http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/ Please forward this
announcement!
Olivier GASCUEL <olivier.gascuel@pasteur.fr >
Portugal AlCoB Jun5-7
4th INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ALGO-
RITHMS FOR COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY AlCoB
2017 Aveiro, Portugal June 5-7, 2017 Organized by:
Center for Research & Development in Mathematics
and Applications (CIDMA) Institute of Electronics and
Informatics Engineering of Aveiro (IEETA) University
of Aveiro
Research Group on Mathematical Linguistics
(GRLMC) Rovira i Virgili University | http://-
grammars.grlmc.com/AlCoB2017/ | AIMS:
AlCoB aims at promoting and displaying excellent re-
search using string and graph algorithms and combina-
torial optimization to deal with problems in biological
sequence analysis, genome rearrangement, evolutionary
trees, and structure prediction.
Previous events were held in Tarragona, Mexico City,
and Trujillo.
The conference will address several of the current chal-
lenges in computational biology by investigating algo-
rithms aimed at:January 1, 2017 EvolDir 21
1) assembling sequence reads into a complete genome, 2)
identifying gene structures in the genome, 3) recognizing
regulatory motifs, 4) aligning nucleotides and compar-
ing genomes, 5) reconstructing regulatory networks of
genes, and 6) inferring the evolutionary phylogeny of
species. | Particular focus will be put on methodology
and signicant room will be reserved to young scholars
at the beginning of their career.
VENUE: | AlCoB 2017 will take place in Aveiro, an in-
dustrial city with an important seaport on the Atlantic
Ocean, and known as \the Portuguese Venice" due to
its network of canals. The venue will be:
Department of Mathematics University of Aveiro
Campus Universit ario de Santiago 3810-193 Aveiro |
SCOPE: | Topics of either theoretical or applied inter-
est include, but are not limited to:
Exact sequence analysis Approximate sequence analysis
Pairwise sequence alignment Multiple sequence align-
ment Sequence assembly Genome rearrangement Regu-
latory motif nding Phylogeny reconstruction Phylogeny
comparison Structure prediction Compressive genomics
Proteomics: molecular pathways, interaction networks
Transcriptomics: splicing variants, isoform inference
and quantication, dierential analysis Next-generation
sequencing: population genomics, metagenomics, meta-
transcriptomics Microbiome analysis Systems biology |
STRUCTURE:
AlCoB 2017 will consist of: | invited lectures peer-
reviewed contributions posters | INVITED SPEAK-
ERS: | Michael Biehl (University of Groningen),
Prototype-based Models for the Analysis of Biomed-
ical Data
Benedict Paten (University of California, Santa Cruz),
The Human Genome Variation Map Project
Marie-France Sagot (INRIA, Villeurbanne), Algorithmi-
cally Exploring and Exploiting Interspecic Interactions
PROGRAMME COMMITTEE: | Can Alkan (Bilkent
University, Ankara, TR) Stephen Altschul (National In-
stitutes of Health, Bethesda, US) Yurii Aulchenko (Poly-
Omica, Groningen, NL) Timothy L. Bailey (University
of Nevada, Reno, US) Bonnie Berger (Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, US) Ken Chen (Uni-
versity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston,
US) Julio Collado-Vides (National Autonomous Uni-
versity of Mexico, Cuernavaca, MX) Eytan Domany
(Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, IL) Dmitrij
Frishman (Technical University of Munich, DE) Terry
Furey (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, US)
Olivier Gascuel (Pasteur Institute, Paris, FR) Debashis
Ghosh (University of Colorado, Denver, US) Susumu
Goto (Kyoto University, JP) Osamu Gotoh (Instituteof Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Tokyo,
JP) Artemis Hatzigeorgiou (University of Thessaly, Vo-
los, GR) Javier Herrero (University College London,
UK) Karsten Hokamp (Trinity College Dublin, IE) Fer-
eydoun Hormozdiari (University of California, Davis,
US) Kazutaka Katoh (Osaka University, JP) Lukasz
Kurgan (Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond,
US) Gerton Lunter (University of Oxford, UK) Carlos
Mart n-Vide (Rovira i Virgili University, Tarragona, ES,
chair) Zemin Ning (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute,
Hinxton, UK) William Staord Noble (University of
Washington, Seattle, US) Cedric Notredame (Center for
Genomic Regulation, Barcelona, ES) Christos Ouzounis
(Centre for Research & Technology Hellas, Thessaloniki,
GR) Manuel C. Peitsch (Philip Morris International,
Bern, CH) Matteo Pellegrini (University of California,
Los Angeles, US) Graziano Pesole (University of Bari,
IT) David Posada (University of Vigo, ES) Knut Reinert
(Free University of Berlin, DE) Peter Robinson (The
Jackson Laboratory, Farmington, US) Julio Rozas (Uni-
versity of Barcelona, ES) David Sanko (University of
Ottawa, CA) Alejandro Sch aer (National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, US) Xinghua Shi (University of North
Carolina, Charlotte, US) Nicholas D. Socci (Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US) Alexan-
dros Stamatakis (Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical
Studies, DE) Granger Sutton (J. Craig Venter Institute,
La Jolla, US)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia SanDiego
ExperimentalEvolution Jan5-6
Dear All,
Many recent advances in evolutionary biology have been
achieved through the development of experimental ap-
proaches in systems ranging from molecules to multi-
cellular organisms. To discuss this topic, please join us
on Jan 5 and 6, 2017, for a two-day Californian Experi-
mental Evolution Symposium on UCSD campus in La
Jolla, CA.
The list of speakers and a tentative schedule can be
found here:22 EvolDir January 1, 2017
http://www.cees2017.org If you would like to attend,
please contact Joanna Dunn (jfdunn@ucsd.edu).
Best regards,
Sergey Kryazhimskiy Justin Meyer
\skryazhi@ucsd.edu" <skryazhi@ucsd.edu >
UMichigan PhenotypicPlasticity
Mar10-12
CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
13th ANNUAL EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYM-
POSIUM
Ecology and evolutionary biology of phenotypic plastic-
ity
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites nominations of out-
standing scientists early in their careers to participate in
an exciting international symposium about the ecology
and evolutionary biology of phenotypic plasticity. The
symposium events will take place from 10-12th of March
2017, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Eight early career scientists, alongside a keynote speaker,
will be selected to present their work and to participate
in panel discussions. We welcome nominations of early
career scientists who are studying topics in ecology and
evolution related to phenotypic plasticity. This sympo-
sium will highlight the work of up-and-coming scientists
whose research foci span a breadth of subelds and levels
of organization. We champion diversity and encourage
the nomination of members of groups underrepresented
in science.
Early career scientists are considered senior graduate
students (who stand to receive their Ph.D. within one
year), postdoctoral researchers, and rst- or second-
year faculty. A colleague or advisor must provide the
nomination.
The nomination consists of a brief letter of recommenda-
tion addressing the nominee's scientic promise and abil-
ity to give a compelling talk, the nominee's curriculum
vitae, and a brief abstract of the proposed presentation
(<200 words, written by the nominee). Nominations
may be sent electronically (in one le, please) to eeb-
ecss-nomination@umich.edu using the nominee's name
as the subject line (last name rst). Information about
Early Career Scientist Symposia held in past years canbe found at http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/ . Review
of nominations will begin on December 31, 2016.
Selected participants will be contacted in mid January
and will have all expenses covered
(registration, travel and accommodation). An ocial
announcement of the slate of speakers will be issued
soon thereafter.
For more information, contact Carol Solomon at carol-
lyn@umich.edu.
The 2017 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientic
committee includes:
Wei-Chin Ho
Andrea Hodgins Davis (chair)
Jill Myers
Annette Ostling
Mary Rogalski
Sonal Singhal
Carol Solomon
Andrea Hodgins-Davis Wittkopp Lab Postdoc Depart-
ment of EEB University of Michigan
Andrea Hodgins-Davis <andreahd@umich.edu >
Vienna EvolutionaryEpigenetics
Sep12-15
Dear all
Registration has opened for the 40th New Phytologist
symposium on the topic \Plant epigenetics: from mech-
anisms to ecological relevance" to be held in Vienna,
Austria, 12-15 Sept 2017.
Plant epigenetics has recently become a compelling re-
search eld. For an ecient integration of epigenetics in
ecological and biodiversity research, an interdisciplinary
and continuous ux of information is necessary, together
with close cooperation between related disciplines. To
this end, this symposium focuses on interdisciplinary dis-
cussion and aims to foster cooperation among research
groups.
The symposium format will include six non-concurrent
sessions on the following topics: Session 1: Population
epigenomics in natural systems Session 2: Epigenetic
regulation of plant phenotypes Session 3: Transgen-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 23
erational inheritance of epigenetic patterns Session 4:
Epigenetic regulation as a response to changes in envi-
ronmental conditions Session 5: Epigenetic regulation
of biotic interactions Session 6: Bioinformatic analysis
for plant epigenetics
Twenty-ve leading scientists are invited to speak at the
symposium. We hope that this will stimulate focused
discussion and the exchange of ideas at what will be
a relatively small (around 120 delegates) and informal
meeting. There will be also several selected talks and
poster sessions. As the symposium benets from gener-
ous support from New Phytologist and the symposium
venue is provided by the University of Vienna, registra-tion rates are low (120 for students and 240 for regular
registration) and include lunches, coee breaks, evening
receptions, conference dinner, a tour of the Botanical
Garden and a nostalgic tram tour through Vienna.
Places are limited, so please register early to avoid dis-
appointment. The registration will close as soon as
the maximum number of participants is reached. Ab-
stract submission will remain open to 13 July 2017.
For full details and to register, please visit https://-
www.newphytologist.org/symposia/40 Dr Ovidiu Paun
Department for Botany and Biodiversity Research Uni-
versity of Vienna http://plantgenomics.univie.ac.at
ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at
GradStudentPositions
Austria BulbophyllumTraitEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
BaylorU SpeciationBehaviorGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
BrighamYoungU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
BrighamYoungU PlantGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 26
BrookesU GeneDuplicateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Brussels MolecularEvolSeaStars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
CharlesU Prague PDF PhD SexChromosomeEvol . 28
ClemsonU FacialEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
CUNewYork ComparativePopgenPhylogeo . . . . . . . . .29
CWilliamMary PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 30
CzechRepublic 3 EvolutionaryParasitology . . . . . . . . 30
CzechRepublic PlantCytogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
DeakinU LifeHistoryStress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
DurhamU 3 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
DurhamU UngulatePhylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
EastCarolinaU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
ETH Zurich BacterialPhylodynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
GrithU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
IGB Berlin HostParasiteCoevol ChineseCandidates 36
ImperialC London 12 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ImperialC London EcoGeneticSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . 37
ImperialC London EvolutionMicrobialCommunities 38
ImperialC London EvolutionSexualBehaviours . . . . .39ImperialC London PopGenomicsChytrid . . . . . . . . . . .40
LMU Munich Paleobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
MississippiStateU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
MonashU MarineEvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
RiceU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
RiceU:PopGenConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
StellenboschU LizardColourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
StonyBrookU NY AnthropologicalGenomics . . . . . . . 44
TexasAMU 2 SocialInsectPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . .44
TexasAMU Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
TrentU WildlifeDiseaseGenomicsBats . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
TulaneU RainforestEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UAkron EvolutionPlantMatingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UAlberta ConvservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UBath DinosaurBirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UBath GeneNetworkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UBath SpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
UCalifornia Riverside Macroevolution Reduviidae . 50
UCincinnati 2 JumpingSpiderColorEvolution . . . . . . 51
UConnecticut SymbiontPhylogenomicsEvol . . . . . . . .52
UGroningen 12 Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UHalle Germany BeeVirusCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UHelsinki HostPathogenCoevol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5424 EvolDir January 1, 2017
UHongKong TreeConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UKonstanz 15 Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
ULausanne BacterialCommunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ULeicester 3 GeneticEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
ULeicester KinshipDeductionForensicsGenealogy . . 58
ULeicester SexSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
ULeicester WildlifeConservationSequencing . . . . . . . .60
ULinnaeus Sweden EvolutionaryEcolLepidoptera . . 60
UManchester BirdSongEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UmeaU FishSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UMuenster 12 EvolutionaryAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UMuenster ExperimentalEvolutionPlasticityIm-
munePriming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UNamur Belgium EvolutionRotifers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UNevada LasVegas HawaiianDrosophila . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UNevada Reno PlantPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UNewHampshire ComparativePhylogenomics . . . . . . 67
UOklahoma EvolutionaryPhysioEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UOtago NewZealand PopGenTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UQueensland MarsupialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68UReading EvolutionCancerDispersal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UReading FungalPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
URhodeIsland BiodiversityGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
USheeld CompGenomicsStructuralColour . . . . . . . .72
USheeld GeneticsOfAgeing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
USouthernCalifornia EvolMitochondriaSexAging . . 73
UStirling PopStructureAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
USussex FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UTArlington Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
UTubingen FloweringPhenology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UTubingen PlantPhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UYork AntHybridisationSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UZurich EpigeneticsAdpatation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Valencia PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
VirginiaCommonwealthU EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
VirginiaTech 2 AvianBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
WashingtonStateU ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
WesternWashingtonU GeneExpressionVariation . . . .80
Austria
BulbophyllumTraitEvolution
THREE-YEAR PHD POSITION IN PLANT EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY
A Ph.D. position in Plant Evolutionary Biology is avail-
able at the Dept. of Ecol ogy and Evolution, Division
of Plant Ecology, Diversity & Evolution, University of
Salzburg, Austria, with Prof. Hans Peter Comes and
Dr. Alexander Gamisch to s tudy the tempo and mode
of trait evolution and lineage diversication in a spec
ies-rich orchid (Bulbophyllum) clade endemic to Mada-
gascar and adjacent islands.
The overall aim of this research project is to investi-
gate the temporal stages o f evolution in various trait
complexes that likely had a major role in the group 's
radiation. Specically, this involves (1) the completion
of a time-calibrate d and well-sampled multi-gene phy-
logeny of Madagascan Bulbophyllum: (2) the gath ering
of new datasets comprising variation in four suites of
traits (i.e. macro- ecological habitat, photosynthetic
pathway, ower morphology/shape and oral s cent);
and (3) the tting of various macro-evolutionary models
of lineage diver sication, trait evolution, and trait-
dependent diversication to the trait da ta and/or the
molecular phylogeny.
The successful candidate will closely co-operate withthe project postdoc (Dr. G amisch) and will be mostly
responsible for (1) gathering and analysing data of t
he orchids' three-dimensional (3D) ower morphology,
using X-ray micro-computed tomography and landmark-
based geometric morphometrics (in co-operation with
Pro f. Dr. J urg Sch onenberger/Vienna); and (2) col-
lecting and analysing oral scent samples by means of
gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy (in co-operation
with Prof. Dr. Stefan D otterl/Salzburg). The candi-
date is further expected to assist in routine molecular
work and in the comparative phylogenetic analyses, and
also has the opportunity to participate in eld work in
Madagascar.
The ideal applicant has a genuine interest in plant evo-
lution and a strong backg round in at least one of the
following elds of research: a) oral morphometri cs; b)
chemical ecology/analytical chemistry; and/or c) molec-
ular phylogenetics. Apart from short research stays at
the University of Vienna, eldwork in remot e places
of Madagascar is required. Accordingly, the successful
candidate should be willing to travel and have physical
tness to perform eld research under tropical rainforest
conditions. An MSc, diploma degree or equivalent in
Botany, Ecology, Genetics or Evolutionary Biology is
required. Fluent English is a must and French as sec-
ond language would be an advantage. German is not
mandatory. The position is starting April 1, 2017, with
funding for three years by the Aust rian Science Fund
(FWF). The monthly gross salary is c. 2045 EUR paid
14 times a year. The University of Salzburg (http://-
www.uni-salzburg.at/) oers excellen t facilities, and aJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 25
very pleasant working and living environment in one of
the m ost beautiful landscapes in Austria.
Please send (if possible via email) a letter of application
together with a full CV, a copy of your master/diploma
certicate, and the addresses of two referee s (all merged
into a single pdf) to: Prof. Hans Peter Comes
Department of Ecology and Evolution
Division of Plant Ecology, Diversity & Evolution
Paris-Lodron-University Salzburg
Hellbrunnerstr. 34, A-5022 Salzburg
Austria
Tel.: ++ 43 (0) 662 8044-5505
Fax: ++43 (0) 8044-142 Email: peter.comes@sbg.ac.at
The position will be lled as soon as a suitable applicant
is found.
Alexander Gamisch <AlexanderGamisch@gmx.at >
BaylorU
SpeciationBehaviorGenetics
TheDanley Lab at Baylor University (http://-
sites.baylor.edu/danleylab/graduate-student-postions/)
seeks two Ph.D. students broadly interested in evo-
lutionary biology using East African cichlid sh as a
model system. The exact nature of the research will
be developed by the student in collaboration with Pat
Danley though it should relate to the lab's previous
research on sexual selection (mate choice, aggression),
phylogeography, and speciation.
Applicantswith a background in behavioral, phyloge-
netic, and genomic methods are encouraged to apply.
Applicants experienced with R and Python are a plus.
Applicants should possess an M.S. degree or substantial
undergraduate research experience, GRE Verbal and
Quantitative Reasoning scores at or above the 70th per-
centile, GRE Analytical Writing score of 4.5 or greater,
and undergraduate and graduate (if applicable) GPA
of 3.5 or higher. Please review additional departmental
admission guidelines (http://www.baylor.edu/biology/-
index.php?id=68418). Applicants must be able to begin
by the fall of 2016.
Thesuccessful applicant will be admitted to the Depart-
ment of Biology's Ph.D. program which provides 5 years
of 12 month stipend ( $22,500, plus possible enhance-ments for outstanding students of up to $8000/year).
Admission also includes full tuition remission (up to a
20 credits per year), health insurance benets (80% of
cost of premium covered; cost to student ~ $450/y in
2015), and additional funding opportunities for travel
to professional meetings, books and fees.
TheBaylor's Department of Biology has an active
graduate community of over 50 students and pos-
sesses strengthens in the areas of integrative organ-
ismal biology and aquatic ecology. Waco, home of
Baylor University, is conveniently located 90 min-
utes from both Dallas and Austin and was recently
ranked as one of America's Awesomest (sic) Cheap
Cities making it a perfect home for would be graduate
students. http://www.wisebread.com/10-of-americas-
awesomest-cheap-cities Toapply, please send an email
describing your background and interests to Dr. Patrick
Danley (patrick danley@baylor.edu). No application
will be considered without previous interaction by email
and telephone/skype with Dr. Danley. Complete appli-
cations need to be submitted to the Graduate School by
January 25, 2017 to be eligible for all-expenses paid cam-
pus visit for the most qualied applicants. Applications
will not be considered after February 15, 2017.
Patrick Danley@baylor.edu
BrighamYoungU
EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Biology at Brigham Young Univer-
sity (BYU) welcomes applications from highly motivated
students interested in joining our MS or PhD programs
in the Fall of 2017. Housed in a new, state of the art
building, the Department (http://biology.byu.edu) com-
prises a large and dynamic faculty spanning a diverse
array of research areas including informal and collabora-
tive research groups in Ecology, Evolutionary Ecology,
Molecular Systematics, Bioinformatics, Conservation
Biology, and Biological Science Education.
The Ecology and Evolutionary Ecology group is a diverse
set of faculty working on plants, fungi, animals, and
microbes in the areas of evolutionary ecology, conserva-
tion biology, biogeography, phylogeography, population
and community ecology, biogeochemistry, environmental
monitoring, evolutionary and ecological stoichiometry,
and ecosystem ecology. There is a focus on integrating
modeling, theory, and experimentation.26 EvolDir January 1, 2017
The Molecular Systematics group features faculty work-
ing in both model and non-model systems in experi-
mental laboratory and eld applications. Specic areas
of research include genomics (experimental and com-
putational), molecular evolution, population genetics,
quantitative genetics, biogeography, phylogeography,
and the evolution of genetic and infectious diseases.
Faculty in the Bioinformatics group maintain research
programs in the genetics of human disease, molecular
evolution, and computational biology, including solu-
tions for next generation sequencing applications.
The Biological Science Education group involves re-
search at all levels of education, focusing on inquiry
teaching, learning theory, and assessment of science ped-
agogy. Faculty in this focal group also use this platform
for various outreach activities, including K-12 collabo-
rative projects with the State Oce of Education.
Each of the focal groups in our department maintain
strong collaborative ties with each other, as well as other
departments on campus, including Plant and Wildlife
Sciences, Microbiology and Molecular Biology, Physiol-
ogy and Developmental Biology, Statistics, Computer
Science, and the McKay School of Education.
Exceptional facilities and resources for carrying out
research are available through the Monte L. Bean
Life Science Museum (http://mlbean.byu.edu), Ly-
tle Ranch Preserve (http://mlbean.byu.edu/lytle),
the DNA Sequencing Center (http://dnasc.byu.edu),
the Research Instrumentation Core Facility (http:/-
/ricfacility.byu.edu), the Microscopy Lab (http://-
microscopy.byu.edu) and the Fulton Supercomputing
Lab (https://marylou.byu.edu).
BYU is located in Provo, Utah, where opportunities for
world-class skiing, y-shing, kayaking, hiking, moun-
tain biking, and many other outdoor recreational activ-
ities are less than 20 minutes from the lab. Salt Lake
City is only 45 minutes travel by car or commuter rail.
For full consideration, complete applications should be
received by January 15, 2017. We strongly encourage
prospective applicants to contact faculty members as
soon as possible to discuss their research interests. Fi-
nancial support for graduate students is competitive
and comes from a variety of sources, including teaching
assistantships, research assistantships, fellowships, and
external research funds. Faculty Proles can be accessed
here: http://biology.byu.edu/Connect/FacultyandSta
Byron Adams, Coordinator, Graduate Programs
Byron Adams <byron adams@byu.edu >BrighamYoungU
PlantGenomeEvolution
Multiple graduate student positions (MS and PhD) in
the evolution of plant genomes are available beginning
Fall 2016 in the Department of Plant and Wildlife Sci-
ence, Brigham Young University. Research focus of these
assistantships center on the genome evolution of poly-
ploid plants (*e.g.* cotton; see http://udall-lab.byu.edu).
During their thesis work, students will employ molecu-
lar, structural, and genetic approaches to address basic
questions in the evolution of plant domestication and ge-
netic diversity of cotton. Specic technologies employed
in the approaches include BioNano optical mapping,
PacBio and Illumina DNA sequencing, and computa-
tional biology.
Successful applicants must be highly motivated, willing
to work hard, and hopefully they are not too distracted
by living in the most beautiful place in the world. Ide-
ally, applicants should have a solid, but not necessarily
deep, understanding of bioinformatics and an interest in
genomics. Actual wet-lab experience with basic molecu-
lar biology techniques is a plus (PCR,cloning, sequence
analysis, etc.).
Funding for this position is through a combination of
Teaching and Research Assistantships from the Na-
tional Science Foundation and Cotton Incorporated.
This means students will be paid a stipend while
they earn their graduate degree! In addition to the
stipends, tuition and health insurance will also be pro-
vided for the accepted students. Interested students
from other Universities than BYU could receive up
to $30K per year through the HIDRA <https://-
graduatestudies.byu.edu/content/hidra >program (for
o-campus applicant to BYU) or through the University
Graduate Research Award (after rst year of studies).
Interested applicants should send a CV, transcripts,
GRE scores (if available) and a statement of research
interests to Joshua Udall ( jaudall@byu.edu). Appli-
cations will be considered until to February 1st, 2016.
International students with strong credentials are wel-
come and encouraged to apply.
{ Joshua Udall (4105 LSB) Brigham Young University
701 E. University Parkway Plant and Wildlife Science
Depart. Provo, UT 84602
Oce: 801-422-9307January 1, 2017 EvolDir 27
jaudall1@gmail.com
BrookesU GeneDuplicateEvolution
Title of the project: Early Evolution of Gene Duplicates
Key words: gene duplication, gene dosage, gene regula-
tion, CRISPR/Cas9, 4C-seq
Gene duplication is a major evolutionary mechanism
leading to novel gene function and phenotypic diversity.
However, very little is known about the period shortly
after the duplication event. Molecular evolution studies
suggest that gene dosage is an important contributory
factor in determining whether new duplicates become
xed or not. However, in metazoans this evidence is
largely based on statistical inference based on extant
population data.
In this project, we aim to test the eect of gene dosage
on the fate of new gene duplicates in an experimen-
tal framework using Drosophila melanogaster. The re-
search project student will generate tandem gene du-
plications, deletions and non-functional mutants using
the CRISPR/Cas9 system and other transgenic tools to
target both genes likely to result in genes with dosage-
sensitive functions as well as genes that are expected
to display less sensitivity to dosage. The eect of the
newly generated transgenic alleles will be measured by
conducting tness assays and functional genomics to
quantify transcription (qPCR, RNAseq) and enhancer
interactions (4C-seq).
Please follow the link for further details and
how to apply: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=79657 Note competitive
fund is only available for UK/EU residents.
Contact details for informal enquiries:
Dr. Saad Arif
sarif@brookes.ac.uk
Dr. Maria Daniela Santos Nunes
msantos-nunes@brookes.ac.ukBrussels MolecularEvolSeaStars
*PhD position (4 years)*
*or*
*Post-doc position (2 years)*
*in molecular ecology* at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB) <http://www.vub.ac.be/en/ >, Department of
Biology <http://we.vub.ac.be/en/biology-department
>, Marine Biology Lab <http://we.vub.ac.be/en/marc-
kochzius >, Belgium.
We are searching for a highly motivated scientist that
will work on *evolution, population genetics and con-
nectivity in Antarctic sea stars* utilising a *genomics*
approach (DNA barcoding, microsatellites and next
generation sequencing) in the framework of the interdis-
ciplinary project
*Refugia and Ecosystem Tolerance in the Southern
Ocean (RECTO).*
Because of its long history and geographic isolation,
the Southern Ocean (SO) provides a natural labora-
tory for research on evolution and biodiversity. Con-
fronted with fast-paced environmental changes, biota
in Antarctic ecosystems are strongly challenged and
face three possible outcomes: adaptation, migration or
extinction. Past glaciation periods have already forced
marine zoobenthos of the SO into refugia, being either
ice-free continental shelf areas, the deep sea or sub- or
peri-Antarctic regions, followed by recolonization when
the ice retreated. In a multidisciplinary approach and
involving all major Belgian research groups studying
evolution and diversity of SO faunas, RECTO will strive
at understanding how such past events have driven di-
versication and adaptation in dierent animal groups
and how these can be applied as proxies to understand
the contemporary situation and predict future scenarios.
The Marine Biology Lab at the VUB specialises in re-
search on molecular ecology of marine fauna from the
poles to the tropics and from invertebrates to shes. In
the new collaborative research project RECTO the evo-
lutionary history of Antarctic sea stars will be studied.
*Prole of the candidate:*
MSc / PhD in (marine) biology with excellent study
results
Experience in genomics (lab work and bioinformatics)28 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Interest in the ecology and evolution of Antarctic sea
stars
Excellent oral and written English skills (for minimum
requirements see http://www.vub.ac.be/en/studying-at-
the-vub/language-requirements)
Willingness to participate in long sampling campaigns
under extreme conditions in the Southern Ocean
PhD student: obligation to nalise a doctoral thesis
within 4 years
The marine biology lab oers excellent coaching in an
inspiring research environment with up-to-date research
facilities in the international and multilingual capital of
Europe.
Interested candidates are requested to submit their ap-
plication (motivation letter, two reference letters, sum-
mary of MSc / PhD thesis, MSc certicate with grades
/ PhD certicate, proof of prociency in English and
curriculum vitae) with the *subject line \RECTO PhD
application" or \RECTO post-doc application"* to the
head of the Marine Biology Lab, Prof. Dr. Marc Kochz-
ius (marc.kochzius@vub.ac.be). Targeted start of the
position is the rst quarter of 2017. Applications will
be considered until the position is lled.
Prof. Dr. Marc Kochzius
Department of Biology
Ecology and Biodiversity
Marine Biology Lab
Oce 8F12
Vrije Universiteit Brussel
Pleinlaan 2
1050 Brussels
Belgium
Email: marc.kochzius@vub.ac.be
Phone: +32 2 629 3406
Fax: +32 2 629 3408
www.researchgate.net/prole/Marc Kochzius http://-
we.vub.ac.be/en/marc-kochzius Secretary Biology De-
partment
Bert Vervloessem
Email: biologie@vub.ac.be
Phone: +32 2 629 3405
www.we.vub.ac.be/en/biology-department Secretary
Oceans & Lakes
Melissa Ferr eEmail: oandl@vub.ac.be
Phone: +32 2 629 3402
Fax: +32 2 629 3403
www.oceansandlakes.be
CharlesU Prague PDF PhD
SexChromosomeEvol
CharlesU Prague.PhD&MSc.SexChromosomeEvolution
PhD and MSc position in Evolution of sex chromosomes
in squamate reptiles
Two positions for a PhD and a MSc candidate is cur-
rently open in the research team of Dr. Lukas Kratochvil,
Department of Ecology, Charles University, Czech Re-
public. The successful candidates will join our current
projects on the study of the evolution of sex chromo-
somes in squamate reptiles with molecular and cytoge-
netic methods.
Project description: The aim of the project is to ex-
amine the evolution of sex chromosomes and their ho-
mology based on gene content in selected lineages of
squamate reptiles (eg. lizards and snakes). Squamate
reptiles possess lineages with either XX/XY, ZZ/ZW
or temperature-dependent sex determination. Despite
the recent advances in the eld, our knowledge about
their sex determination systems and sex chromosome
homology is limited only to few groups of reptiles (eg.
iguanas, advanced snakes), while the majority of reptil-
ian lineages remain unstudied. The successful candidate
will collaborate with the other team members and will
study the evolution of sex chromosomes in a multidi-
rectional approach, involving cytogenetics (eg. FISH,
chromosome painting), molecular genetics (eg. qPCR)
and bioinformatics (eg. transcriptomics). More informa-
tion about our current research activity can be found
in the following publications:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27037610
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26702042
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24433436
Qualications: For PhD candidates, the applicant
should possess Master degree (or equivalent title) and
has a proven expertise in a related eld of biology:
evolutionary biology, cytogenetics, phylogenetics,
genomics and/or bioinformatics. Previous experience
in herpetology is not necessary. The ideal candidate
should be scientically motivated, able to work bothJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 29
independently and as a part of the team. High standard
of spoken and written English is required. For Master
students, the applicant should possess a degree in
Biology (or relative subject) and a proven experimental
expertise (eg. diploma thesis) in zoology, genetics
and/or molecular biology.
Application: The applicant should send a short letter
explaining his/her background and motivation, full CV
and contact information for two references to both Dr.
Michail Rovatsos (michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz) and
Dr. Lukas Kratochvil (lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz).
The successful candidate will be nancially supported,
with a salary sucient for a comfortable living in Prague,
Czech Republic, relevant to qualications, which will be
further increased based on performance.
Prague is often included in the top lists for best cities,
considering safety, culture, popular travel destinations
and quality of living. Some useful links:
Charles University website: http://www.cuni.cz/-
UKEN-1.html Faculty of Science, Charles University:
www.natur.cuni.cz/en Student life in Prague: http://-
studyinprague.cz/about-prague/student-life-in-prague/
Cost of living: http://www.studyin.cz/living-costs/
Tourism guide: http://www.myczechrepublic.com/-
prague/ The position is valid until suitable candidates
are selected and the starting date is exible, with
closest date 1/1/2017. Suitable candidates will be
interviewed until January 31th. For any additional
information, do not hesitate to write an email.
Michail Rovatsos
Researcher Department of Ecology Faculty of Science
Charles University Vinicna 7, 128 43 Praha 2 Czech
Republic
\Michail Rovatsos, Ph.D."
<michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz >
ClemsonU FacialEvoDevo
The Powder Lab at Clemson University is recruiting
graduate students to study the genetic and develop-
mental basis of craniofacial evolution of cichlid shes
(Evo-Devo). We combine approaches including quantita-
tive trait loci (QTL) mapping and population genomics
to identify genetic regions in cichlids that contribute to
craniofacial variation. We then analyze candidate genes
and transcriptional regulators utilizing pharmacologi-
cal treatments, gene knockdowns, genetic engineering(CRISPR/cas9), genomics, and geometric morphometric
shape analysis in either cichlids or zebrash embryos.
Both MS and PhD degrees are available through
the Department of Biological Sciences at Clemson
University and will be supported through Graduate
Teaching Assistantships (GTAs) and Graduate Re-
search Assistantships (GRAs). Detailed information
about the graduate program and admissions are avail-
able at http://www.clemson.edu/science/departments/-
biosci/academics/graduate/index.html .Deadline for ap-
plication is Jan 5, 2017.
About the area:
Located in Upstate South Carolina, Clemson's pic-
turesque campus is on the shores of Lake Hartwell and
in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. We are
surrounded by lakes, waterfalls, and abundant hiking.
Also within a quick drive is the beautiful and thriving
Greenville SC, ranked #7 on Lonely Planet's 2015 Best
in the US list, as well as Asheville NC, Atlanta GA, and
Charlotte NC.
Please contact Kara Powder at kpowder@clemson.edu
for more information
Kara E. Powder Assistant Professor of Biological Sci-
ences Clemson University
\kpowder@clemson.edu" <kpowder@clemson.edu >
CUNewYork
ComparativePopgenPhylogeo
NSF supported PhD position starting Fall 2017; Multi-
taxa population genetics; Application due Jan 1st
https://hickerlab.wordpress.com/ Details:
The Hickerson lab at the City University of New York
has an opening for a PhD student who is interested in
community-level population genetics and comparative
phylogeography. We are focusing on developing and
implementing methods for bridging community ecology
with population genetics and phylogeography to recon-
struct the evolutionary and demographic histories of
co-distributed species assemblages.
The ideal candidate will have a strong interest and ap-
titude in quantitative biology, modeling, and program-
ming as well as an interest in evolutionary genetics and
biogeography. The lab welcomes qualied applicants
with diverse backgrounds, including biology, anthro-
pology, mathematics, physics, computer science, and30 EvolDir January 1, 2017
related elds.
Our lab is located in Manhattan and locally we have
tight collaborations with the lab groups of Ana Car-
naval (CUNY), Kyle McDonald (CUNY), Frank Bur-
brink (AMNH), and Brian Smith (AMNH), as well as
international collaborations with Konrad Lohse (U. of
Edinburgh, UK), and Brent Emerson (IPNA, Canary
Islands, Spain). CUNY has a large and thriving commu-
nity of faculty, students, and post-docs studying ecology,
evolution, and behavior and we benet from the aca-
demic environment in New York City that allows us to
have close ties to the AMNH, the New York Botanical
Gardens as well as other local universities, including
Rutgers, Columbia, Fordham, Rockefeller, NYU and
Stony Brook.
The position would start in the Fall of 2017. Contact
mhickerson 'at' ccny cuny.edu if there is interest. Note
that applications for Fall 2017 to the CUNY EEB sub-
program must be received before January 1rst of 2017.
For more information visit: http://-
hickerlab.wordpress.com/ Michael J Hickerson
Associate Professor City College of New York - Biology
Department; City University of New York Ecology,
Evolution and Behavior Sub-Program 160 Convent Ave
New York, NY 10031 lab 212-650-3457
Ecology Evolution, and Behavior subprograms (EEB)
City University of New York and the Graduate Center
365 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10016-4309
Research Associate - Division of Invertebrate Zool-
ogy American Museum of Natural History http://-
hickerlab.wordpress.com/ \mhickerson@ccny.cuny.edu"
<mhickerson@ccny.cuny.edu >
CWilliamMary
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Graduate Position: Monarch Buttery and Milk-
weed Conservation The Puzey lab at the College of
William and Mary is recruiting graduate students
(M.S) interested understanding the evolutionary his-
tory of Monarch-Milkweed interactions. More infor-
mation about my lab can be found here: http://-
puzeylab.weebly.com . Positions for MS program start
Fall 2017. Please contact Josh Puzey (jrpuzey@wm.edu)
for more information.
The successful applicant will be passionate about evo-
lution, interested in plant and insect interactions, andkeen to use genomic techniques to address their research
questions. Students working the Puzey lab get exposure
to a wide range of analyses and techniques including
next-generation sequencing (DNA, RNA, smRNA), pop-
ulation genomic analyses, and molecular ecology.
Details about the M.S. program in Biology at W&M
can be found here (http://www.wm.edu/as/biology/-
graduate/). Full-time students are supported by teach-
ing assistantships and full tuition waivers. Most students
complete their master's degree in two years and go on
to pursue either a Ph.D. or M.D. degree. Our program
also provides the training required to enter technical
positions in industry and government. Recent grads are
pursuing Ph.D.s at Duke, UC Davis, Johns Hopkins, and
University of Toronto; others are following career paths
in biotech, pharmaceuticals, resource management, and
environmental consulting.
Joshua Puzey <jrpuzey@gmail.com >
CzechRepublic 3
EvolutionaryParasitology
3 PhD student positions in molecular parasitology avail-
able at the Life Science Research Centre, University
of Ostrava, Ostrava Czech Republic from September
1^st, 2017 in the laboratory of Molecular protozool-
ogy (Dr. Vyacheslav Yurchenko, http://www1.osu.cz/-
~yurchenko/)
1. To study the limits of trypanosomatids' biodiversity
using molecular phylogenetic and phylogenomic meth-
ods.
Requirements: uent English, knowledge of molecu-
lar phylogenetic principles and approaches. Basic bio-
computing (e.g. genome and transcriptome analysis)
and statistics experience are advantageous.
Recent publications:
Kostygov, A., Dobakova, E., Grybchuk-Ieremenko,
A., Vahala, D., Maslov, D., Votypka, J., Lukes, J.,
Yurchenko, V. Novel trypanosomatid -bacterium associ-
ation: evolution of endosymbiosis in action. mBio, 2016,
7(2): e01985-15. PMID: 26980834.
Votypka, J., d'Avila-Levy, C., Grellier, P., Maslov,
D., Lukes, J., Yurchenko, V. New approaches to sys-
tematics of Trypanosomatidae: criteria for taxonomic
(re)description. Trends Parasitol., 2015, 31: 460-469.
PMID: 26433249.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 31
2. To study the molecular mechanisms governing trans-
lation in Blastocrithidia sp.
Requirement: uent English, advanced molecular biol-
ogy skills (DNA, RNA, protein analyses, genome manip-
ulations). Basic bio-computing experience (e.g. genome
and transcriptome analysis) is advantageous.
Recent publication:
Zahonova, K., Kostygov, A., S evcikova, T., Yurchenko,
V., Elias, M. An unprecedented non-canonical nuclear ge-
netic code with all three termination codons reassigned
as sense codons. Curr. Biol., 2016, 26(17): 2364-2369.
PMID: 27593378.
3. To study novel virulence factors in Leishmania infec-
tion
Requirements: uent English, advanced molecular biol-
ogy skills (DNA, RNA, protein analyses, genome manip-
ulations). Basic bio-computing experience (e.g. genome
and transcriptome analysis) is advantageous.
Recent publications:
Flegontov, P., Butenko, A., Firsov. S., Kraeva, N.,
Elias, M., Field, M., Filatov, D., Flegontova, O., Gerasi-
mov, E., Hlavacova, J., Ishemgulova, A., Jackson, A.,
Kelly, S., Kostygov. A., Logacheva, M., Maslov, D.,
Opperdoes, F., O'Reilly, A., Sadlova, J., S evcikova, T.,
Venkatesh, D., Vlcek, c., Volf, P., Votypka, J., Zahonova,
K., Yurchenko, V., Lukes, J. Genome of Leptomonas
pyrrhocoris: a high-quality reference for monoxenous try-
panosomatids and new insights into evolution of Leish-
mania. Sci. Rep., 2016, 6: 23704. PMID: 27021793.
Kraeva, N., Butenko, A., Hlavacova, J., Kostygov, A.,
Myskova, J., Grybchuk, D., Lestinova, T., Votypka,
J., Volf, P., Opperdoes, F., Flegontov, P., Lukes, J.,
Yurchenko, V. Leptomonas seymouri: adaptations to
the dixenous life cycle analyzed by genome sequencing,
transcriptome proling and co-infection with Leishmania
donovani. PLOS Path., 2015, 11(8): e1005127. PMID:
226317207.
Kraeva, N., Ishemgulova, A, Lukes, J., Yurchenko, V.
Tetracycline-inducible gene expression system in Leish-
mania mexicana. Mol. Biochem. Parasitol., 2014, 198:
11-13. PMID: 25461484.
How to apply:
Please send your Resume and Cover/motivation letter to
Dr. Vyacheslav Yurchenko by January 31, 2017. Do not
forget to indicate position you are applying for. E-mail:
vyacheslav.yurchenko@osu.cz
Laboratory of Molecular protozoology is a part of the
Life Science Research Centre at the Faculty of Science,
University of Ostrava focused on biological and biomed-ical research in the areas of functional genomics and
bioinformatics. For more information, visit the lab web
page at www1.osu.cz/ ~yurchenko/
Alexei Kostygov <kostygov@gmail.com >
CzechRepublic PlantCytogenetics
For the project \Repeatome dynamics in the earliest
evolutionary stages of apomictic plants", funded by the
Czech Science Foundation, we seek to the earliest possi-
ble date a highly motivated
PhD student in Cytogenetics
The project (duration 3 years) is aimed at a better un-
derstanding of mechanisms underlying the transition
from sexual to apomictic reproduction. Apomixis is
tightly connected with hybridization and polyploidiza-
tion. Despite a great potential in agriculture, the genetic
mechanisms of apomixis are still poorly understood.
Hybridization causes genetic instability including a re-
structuring of the repeatome, the fastest evolving part
of plant genomes. Bursts of transposable elements due
to hybridization-induced genomic shock may trigger a
switch to apomixis. In the project, sexual and apomictic
Hieracium species will be investigated in an extensive
breeding program, comparing articial hybrids with
natural apomicts of the same parentage as a model of
hybrid speciation that may lead to the formation of
apomictic lineages.
An interdisciplinary and international team
of researchers from the Institute of Botany
(www.ibot.cas.cz/en/) of the Czech Academy of
Sciences and the Department of Botany of the Charles
University in Prague (www.cuni.cz/UKEN-1.html)
will tackle this complex biological question from
various angles (cytogenetics, genomics, embryology,
reproductive biology).
Responsibilities of the PhD candidate include karyotyp-
ing of plants, in situ hybridization (FISH, GISH) with a
main focus on the localization of parental-specic repet-
itive elements using probes derived from NGS data as
cytogenetic markers to investigate genome repatterning
following hybridization. Further tasks include data pro-
cessing and interpretation, presentations at international
conferences and publications in IF journals.
Experience with karyological and cytological techniques,
preferably in plants, is desired. The candidate should
have an excellent command of English. Personal features32 EvolDir January 1, 2017
should include reliability, patience, technical accuracy,
exibility, good social skills and the readiness to learn.
We oer creative work, the chance for personal
development, a pleasant working atmosphere in a
marvellous environment (Pruhonice Park, UNESCO
World Heritage Site, www.pruhonickypark.cz/en/the-
pruhonice-park/), and an excellent infrastructure at the
Laboratory of Molecular Cytogenetics and Karyology
(http://www.ibot.cas.cz/en/scientic-groups-and-
laboratories/laboratory-of-molecular-cytogenetics-
and-karyology/) under the leading of Dr. Alexander
Belyayev. The PhD candidate will be enroled at Charles
University in Prague, one of the oldest universities in
Europe.
For more information, please contact Dr. Judith Fehrer
(fehrer@ibot.cas.cz). Applications containing a motiva-
tion letter, a short CV and two references should be
sent until 22. January to ibot@ibot.cas.cz.
Dr. Judith Fehrer Institute of Botany Czech Academy
of Sciences Z amek 1 25243 Pruhonice near Prague Czech
Republic
phone +420 271015415 fax +420 267750031
fehrer@ibot.cas.cz
Fehrer Judith <Judith.Fehrer@ibot.cas.cz >
DeakinU LifeHistoryStress
Ph.D. scholarship available Deakin University; Centre
for Integrative Ecology, Geelong, Vic Australia Stress,
song and transgenerational epigenetic inheritance
Although the transgenerational eects of early life
stress have been well documented in a variety of non
model organisms, the underlying mechanisms are un-
clear. The PhD student will join a supervisory team
of Australian Research Council Future Fellow Profes-
sor Kate Buchanan, Professor Andy TD Bennett & Dr
Ondi Crino, who are seeking an outstanding, highly
motivated PhD candidate. Previous work has demon-
strated the fundamental impact of early life stressors
on vocal learning in songbirds. The aim of this PhD
research is to assess the extent to which such eects
occur across generations and test the possible mecha-
nisms for transgenerational eects using Zebra Finches
as a model systems. The PhD student will work with
experimentally bred generation of wild-derived zebra
nches in captivity, but opportunities for eld work on
wild populations of zebra nches in arid Australia arealso available.
The PhD student will be in a vibrant and productive
research team. They will test the role of early devel-
opmental stress for song learning, neural development
and behaviour. They will conduct behavioural tests,
bioacoustics analyses, neural sectioning and image brain
sections for gene expression. Fundamentally the student
will test whether early developmental conditions impose
inherited inuence on cognition, by assessing vocal learn-
ing in birds arising from control and developmentally
stressed parents.
Start date: from March 2017 onwards Stipend:
AUD $26,000 p.a. (tax exempt) for 3 years (for non-
Australian/NZ citizens waivers to overseas tuition fee
are potentially available)
It will build on our recent research, featured in the inter-
national leading journal Science, (and reported widely
including The ABC Science Show, BBC, Smithsonian,
New York Times) which showed transgenerational eects
in zebra nches of singing to eggs. Check out https://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=fDg67kUPAc PhD Project
content: The student will join a productive ARC-funded
team testing the eect of early life stress on vocal learn-
ing, neural development and behaviour. The student
will have responsibility for carrying out behavioural play-
back experiments, recording and analysing avian song,
collecting neural tissue and imaging the brain for gene
expression. They will receive training in all these as-
pects, and as the research will involve collaboration with
the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology in Germany,
travel there may be possible. Although the project has
clear aims to meet the project objectives, we seek a
student who is keen to develop their own interests and
so nd their own individual niche within the project.
For further description of the research groups see the
following sites: http://www.deakin.edu.au/proles/-
kate-buchanan http://www.deakin.edu.au/proles/-
andy-bennett http://cie-deakin.com/ Recent relevant
publications by the group include: . Mariette M.M.
& Buchanan K.L. (2016) Prenatal acoustic commu-
nication programs ospring for high posthatching
temperatures in a songbird. Science 353: 812-814 DOI:
10.1126/science.aaf7049 . Buchanan, KL, J. Grindsta
and V.V. Pravosudov (2013) Condition- dependence,
developmental plasticity and cognition: implications
for ecology and evolution. Trends in Ecology and
Evolution 28, 290-296. . Crino, O.L., K. L Buchanan,
L.A Trompf, M. C Mainwaring, S. C Grith (2016)
Stress reactivity, condition, and foraging behavior in
zebra nches: eects on boldness, exploration, and
sociality. General and Comparative Endocrinology
doi 10.1016/j.ygcen.2016.01.014. . Woodgate, J.L,January 1, 2017 EvolDir 33
K.L. Buchanan, A.T.D. Bennett, C.K .Catchpole, R.
Brighton & S. Leitner. (2013) Environmental and
genetic control of brain and song structure in the zebra
nch. Evolution 68, 230- 240.
The Research Environment: The PhD student will be
based in the Centre for Integrative Ecology (CIE) at
Deakin University's Geelong campus. This is 50 min-
utes from the Melbourne CBD and 20 minutes from
Bells Beach and the Great Ocean Road. Deakin hosts
one of the largest ornithological research groups in the
southern hemisphere, and in the recent ARC Research
Assessment exercise received the highest possible rating
(of 5) in Zoology. Excellent facilities are available includ-
ing a 300m2 new aviary, modern lab and oces, well
equipped 4WDs for eldwork, excellent statistical sup-
port and established sites for eldwork on zebra nches.
The CIE has over 60 postdoctoral researchers and PhD
students,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DurhamU 3 EvolutionaryGenetics
Three competitive PhD studentship opportunities are
available in evolutionary and ecological genetics at
Durham University, UK. These 3.5 or 4-year fellowships
provide a full tuition fee waiver, a competitive living
stipend, and a considerable research allowance. For
more information about these projects and how to ap-
ply see https://sites.google.com/site/andreannajwelch/-
jointhelab/ phd-studentship-opportunities or contact Dr.
Andreanna Welch at a.j.welch@durham.ac.uk. Only the
best applicants will be asked to submit a full application.
Durham University is consistently rated as one of the
top 100 universities in the world. Located in northeast
England, the university is situated in a scenic town and
lies within a 15-minute train ride of the thriving city
of Newcastle. The department of Biosciences oers a
supportive research-driven environment with projects
ranging from the cellular to the ecosystem level.
AVAILABLE PROJECTS:
1) Reconstructing the evolutionary history of ecological
dynamics and extinction risk in seabirdsDuring their evolutionary history, birds have only rarely
colonized the open oceans beyond the continental shelves.
The Procellariiformes (albatrosses, shearwaters, storm-
petrels, etc.) are by far the largest and most diverse
group of oceanic birds, but their molecular phylogeny
is poorly known. As part of an international collab-
oration, the student will use capture enrichment and
next generation sequencing methods to collect a rich
genomic dataset and resolve the phylogeny of all extant
and recently extinct Procellariiformes, at and below the
species level. This will advance our understanding of the
evolution of oceanic avian predators, allow exploration
of the role of ecology in the process of diversication,
and inform conservation management of this globally-
threatened group. Beyond this, the theory, methods,
and skills learned while completing this project will be
widely applicable and prepare the student for future
success in academic, research, and non-governmental
positions.
Eligibility: All nationalities Letters of interest should be
received by 2 January 2017 If invited, full applications
(including 2 reference letters) are due 9 January 2017
2) Using ancient DNA to uncover historical disease dy-
namics in North American and British deer
Diseases can have dramatic impacts by limiting popula-
tion growth rates, producing strong selection pressures,
and potentially leading to adaptive responses. While
not infective to humans, chronic wasting disease (CWD)
is a fatal disease in cervids (deer, elk, and moose). Anal-
yses of the underlying Prnp gene suggest that particular
alleles may inuence susceptibility through decreased
infection rates and/or slower disease progression. We
will use ancient DNA techniques to examine changes
in the frequencies of Prnp alleles through time in two
deer species, European red deer (Cervus elaphus) and
closely related North American elk (Cervus canaden-
sis). For work on elk, the student will travel to the
US and be hosted in the lab of our collaborator for
three moths to study both infected and non-infected
populations. While CWD is not currently present in
the UK, evidence suggests that similar diseases may
have inuenced populations of red deer in the past, and
investigation of contemporary populations will provide
insights into current susceptibility, should CWD spread
to the UK. Thus the student will have multiple oppor-
tunities to interface with UK governmental agencies
working to prevent the spread of CWD to Britain.
Eligibility: UK citizens and EU citizens who have
resided in the UK >3 years Letters of interest should be
received by 9 January 2017 If invited, full applications
(including 2 reference letters) are due 16 January 2017
3) Evolutionary insights for engineering improved globin34 EvolDir January 1, 2017
oxygen carriers
Around 2 million red blood cell units at a cost of 120
GBP per unit are transfused annually in England alone.
These costs, together with a shortage of donors and
inherent infection risks have led to the drive for the
development of articial, haem-based oxygen carriers.
Our previous research has identied diving mammals
as a natural model system for the study of biochemi-
cal/biophysical factors that allow greatly increased ex-
pression yields of the oxygen-binding protein myoglobin,
a prototype for the development of haem-based oxygen
carriers. This large-scale evolutionary, bioinformatics
and phylogenetic analysis has revealed multiple conver-
gent pathways to increased protein expression capacity
by an order of magnitude in several mammalian lin-
eages. These were associated with distinct increases
in myoglobin net surface charge that presumably in-
hibit protein aggregation by electrostatic repulsion. We
have since identied multiple convergent increases in
myoglobin folding stability as another correlate of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
DurhamU UngulatePhylogeography
NERC PhD studentship available at Durham Univer-
sity (in collaboration with the British Geological Survey
and the Natural History Museum) - full funding for UK
nationals only:
Phylogeography of European ungulates from the last
interglacial period and their subsequent evolution.
This project will involve ancient DNA and next genera-
tion sequencing to explore the genetic diversity of deer
and other ungulates from the Eemian interglacial period,
~120,000 years ago. A key aspect of the study will be
the integration of environmental data (including stable
isotope analyses in collaboration with the British Geolog-
ical Survey), so that any changes in demography or dis-
tribution can be interpreted in the context of changing
environments. The studentship competition is through
the NERC IAPETUS DTP. A detailed yer describing
the project is available at http://www.iapetus.ac.uk/
Application materials should include a c.v., academic
records and at least two letters of reference sent toa.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk. Advisory team: Rus Hoelzel,
Melanie Leng, Darren Grocke and Adrian Lister. Dead-
line is 20 January 2017
\HOELZEL, ALAN R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
EastCarolinaU
EvolutionaryGenetics
Graduate position: Evolutionary genetics at East Car-
olina University
Pending approval of funding, I will be recruiting a doc-
toral student to carry out research associated with a
project focused on the genetic underpinnings of color
pattern evolution in a mimetic radiation of poison frogs
in Peru (see abstract below). The position would for-
mally begin in the fall of 2017, but the student could
potentially participate in eldwork for the project in
Peru in the summer of 2017 before starting in the doc-
toral program. Desirable qualications for this position
include relevant coursework or experience with modern
approaches in evolutionary genetics and genomics, such
as RNA and DNA extraction, RNA and DNA library
preps, Next-generation sequencing (especially on the
Illumina platform), exome capture sequencing, analysis
of Next-Gen datasets including data clean-up, transcrip-
tome assembly, dierential expression analyses, popula-
tion genomic analyses of genomic reduced representation
(e.g. exome capture) datasets, and association analyses
using multi-generational pedigrees. Experience working
with amphibian breeding programs and/or eldwork in
Latin America would also be a plus. I encourage appli-
cations from minorities and under-represented groups of
all kinds. Please send a letter detailing your relevant ex-
perience and explaining your interest in the position, as
well as a current CV (including a summary of academic
coursework, grades and achievements) and GRE scores
(if available) to Kyle Summers (summersk@ecu.edu).
Information about evolutionary biology at East Carolina
University The Department of Biology at East Carolina
University has a strong commitment to research in evo-
lutionary biology in general and evolutionary genetics
in particular, with multiple faculty doing related re-
search. Faculty with related interests include Chris
Balakrishnan (avian evolutionary genomics), Michael
Brewer (evolutionary genomics of arthropods), Je McK-
innon (evolutionary ecology and genetics of sticklebacks),
Susan McRae (avian evolutionary genetics and behav-
ior), Trip Lamb (phylogeography of reptiles, amphibiansJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 35
and insects), April Blakeslee (evolutionary genetics of
marine invertebrates), Carol Goodwillie (evolutionary
ecology and genetics of plants), John Stiller (plant evolu-
tionary genomics), Michael McCoy (theoretical ecology
and evolution), Krista McCoy (ecological physiology),
Jinling Huang (evolutionary genomics and horizontal
gene transfer), and Ariane Peralta (Microbial ecological
genomics). Information on applying for admission to
the doctoral program at ECU can be found at: http:/-
/www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/idpbs/ . Abstract of proposed
research The evolution of color pattern diversity in the
context of mimicry has been a focus of theoretical and
empirical attention, yet knowledge of the genetic ba-
sis of this diversity remains limited. Most work on
this topic has focused on a small number of systems
(e.g. Heliconius butteries), limiting the generality of
inferences. This project combines three research groups
with complementary skills and realms of expertise to
investigate the genetic basis and population genomic
processes underlying color pattern divergence in the
context of mimicry in the Peruvian mimic poison frog,
Ranitomeya imitator: Dr. Kyle Summers (East Car-
olina University), Dr. Rasmus Nielsen (UC Berkeley)
and Dr. Matthew MacManes (University of New Hamp-
shire). The project focuses on four specic aims: 1.
Identify key genetic factors involved in color pattern
development in R. imitator by investigating dierential
gene expression across developmental stages and color
pattern morphs. Next generation sequencing will be
used to produce developmental stage-specic transcrip-
tomes for each morph, which will be assembled and
used to investigate patterns of dierential gene expres-
sion. 2.Identify the causal gene(s) underlying dierences
in color pattern between morphs using genome-wide
marker arrays (exome capture sequences) to screen tran-
sition zone samples and enable admixture mapping. We
have identied three admixture zones in the mimetic
radiation that will be appropriate for these analyses.
3. Test the association of specic candidate loci with
color pattern using pedigree analyses of candidate genes
identied from Aims 1 and 2, using a multigenerational
pedigree. 4. Test specic hypotheses regarding selection
and demographic processes in the transition zones and
between mimics and models. These analyses will involve
the development of new analytical tools for analyzing
selection in admixture zones and targeted sequencing
of model species. Together these complementary, recip-
rocally illuminating approaches will begin to reveal the
genetic underpinnings and population genomics of color
pattern diversity in this mimetic radiation of poison
frogs.
Kyle Summers Dept. of Biology East Carolina Univer-
sity Greenville, NC 27858 252-328-6304/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ETH Zurich
BacterialPhylodynamics
The Computational Evolution group led by Prof. Tanja
Stadler at the Department of Biosystems Science and
Engineering in Basel, ETH Zurich, invites applications
for a
PhD position in bacterial phylodynamics: towards un-
derstanding the evolution and spread of antibiotic resis-
tance.
All further information about the position and how to
apply are available on https://apply.reine.ch/845721/-
5065/pub/1/index.html Tanja Stadler ETH Z urich
Department of Biosystems Science & Engineering (D-
BSSE) Mattenstrasse 26 4058 Basel Switzerland
Email: tanja.stadler@bsse.ethz.ch Phone: +41 61 38
73410 Oce: 7.54
https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cevo
tanja.stadler@bsse.ethz.ch
GrithU PopulationGenomics
A Ph.D. scholarship in Bioinformatics/Population Ge-
nomics is available at Grith University, Nathan, Aus-
tralia. We have a world class Genomics laboratory and
have sequenced the genomes of penguins, humans and
canines. We are looking for an enthusiastic student
with immense interest in the bioinformatics analysis of
next generation sequence data. The prospective student
will be working on a project to analyse genome data
(to be generated in this lab as well as those available
in the databanks) to examine the patterns deleterious
mutations in human populations.
An honors or master's degree in biological, physical or
computational science is required. Persons with a non-36 EvolDir January 1, 2017
biology degree should have some basic understanding of
genetics, evolution and molecular biology.
Essential skills include: [We wouldn't expect a starting
PhD student to have many of these skills, but an ability
and desire to learn them is obviously essential]
Scripting: Perl/Python Unix command line (particu-
larly to use parallel computing clusters) Programming:
Java/C/C++ (OOPS concept) Database: maintenance
and design; MySQL/PosgreSQL/SQLite or similar Fa-
miliarity with sequence databases and genome browsers
(eg. NCBI/EMBL/DDBJ, UCSC) Familiarity with the
following software is desirable: Read mapping: BWA;
Bowtie; GSMapper (454); SOAP De novo assembly:
Velvet; SOAP de novo; Assembly summary: Samtools;
GATK Population genetic software: PLINK; EIGEN-
SOFT
English language requirements: A minimum overall
band score of 6.5 on IELTS (Academic) with no sub-
score of less than 6.0 or A minimum score of 575 of
TOEFL (Paper) or A TOEFL iBT score of 79 (no score
less than 19)
For further details please contact Sankar Subramanian
( s.subramanian@grith.edu.au)
Regards Sankar
Sankar Subramanian Research Fellow Research Centre
for Human Evolution Grith University Nathan QLD
4111 Australia
Email: s.subramanian@grith.edu.au Ph: 61-7-
37357495 Fax: 61-7-37357459
Sankar Sankarasubramanian
<s.subramanian@grith.edu.au >
IGB Berlin HostParasiteCoevol
ChineseCandidates
Open PhD position for Chinese candidates Wolinska ^As
Lab is seeking an outstanding PhD Candidate for ap-
plying to a PhD program at the Leibniz Institute of
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB) located
in Berlin, Germany (aliated with the Free University
Berlin).
The candidate will apply for a PhD stipend with
China Scholarship Council. The application deadline
(i.e. rst step) is 04.01.2017. For more infor-
mation about the FUB-CSC funding program,please check: http://www.fu-berlin.de/en/sites/-
china/foerdermoeglichkeiten/fuer chinesen/csc/ For
application procedure, please check: http://www.fu-
berlin.de/en/sites/china/foerdermoeglichkeiten/-
fuerchinesen/csc/PhD Oer 2017/index.html PhD
Project description http://www.fu-berlin.de/en/-
sites/china/foerdermoeglichkeiten/fuer chinesen/-
csc/PhD-Positions-2017/PhD-Wolinska-Evolutionary-
Ecology.pdf Project title: Role of parasitic chytrids in
regulating cyanobacterial blooms Project description:
Parasitic fungi of the order Chytridiales (i.e. Chytrids)
are able to infect a wide number of phytoplankton
species. Although overlooked for a long time, chytrids
are an important factor driving the dynamics of
phytoplankton. For example, Chytrids seem to be
involved in the decline of toxic cyanobacteria blooms,
by inducing direct mortality of parasitized cells and
indirectly by the mechanistic fragmentation which
weakens the resistance to grazing. On the other hand,
selection on host populations exerted by Chytrids is
also thought to be responsible for maintaining high
host diversity in nature. The candidate will use a
novel host-parasite system (based on a cyanobacterial
host and its chytrid parasite) for advancing in the
eld of parasitism in phytoplankton. The scope of the
project will address dierent questions related to the
physiology, molecular genetics and genomics (including
next-generation-sequencing) of the interactions and
their ecological and evolutionary implications.
Language requirements: excellent English skills (uent
conversation and good writing skills)
Academic requirements: Master degree in biology or
bioinformatics. Solid background in ecology, evolution
and/or molecular biology.
Information about Wolinska's lab: We are a group of
evolutionary ecologists who study how rapid evolution-
ary changes are being inuenced by environmental chal-
lenges. We have a long-standing experience working
with the Cladoceran model system: Daphnia and its mi-
croparasites. Recently, we also employ a Cyanobacteria-
Chytrid system to explore a number of ecological and
evolutionary questions. http://www.igb-berlin.de/en/-
prole/justyna-wolinska-0 http://www.igb-berlin.de/-
en/disease-evolutionary-ecology Justyna Wolinska
Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (IGB) Department II (Ecosystem Research)
Mueggelseedamm 301 12587 Berlin, Germany
Group Leader at the IGB & Professor for Aquatic Evo-
lutionary Ecology at the Free University of Berlin
email: wolinska@igb-berlin.de
http://www.igb-berlin.de/en/prole/justyna-wolinska-0January 1, 2017 EvolDir 37
Google Scholar: https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=80WCzk8AAAAJ&hl=en Justyna
Wolinska <wolinska@igb-berlin.de >
ImperialC London 12 Evolution
The Quantitative and Modelling Skills in Ecology and
Evolution (QMEE) CDT is pleased to announce 8
NERC-funded PhD studentships plus 4 institutional
PhDs starting in October 2017.
The QMEE CDT will train a cohort of researchers in
Ecology and Evolution with the quantitative and mod-
elling skills to solve real-world problems by connecting
theory, data, and practice. To view example projects, in-
structions on how to apply and information on eligibility
please visit our website.
The deadline for applications is 19th January 2017.
For any questions, please contact Ibi Wallbank, Depart-
mental Manager, at qmee.cdt@imperial.ac.uk
Please help disseminate this opportunity to anyone you
think may be interested.
QMEE CDT <qmee.cdt@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialC London
EcoGeneticSpeciation
PhD on 'The ecological and genetic determinants of
speciation'
Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London
(Silwood Park Campus), UK
Competition-funded as part of the NERC Doctoral
Training Partnership in Science and Solutions for a
Changing Planet (SSCP).
Supervisor: Prof Tim Barraclough
Key words: speciation, evolution, adaptation, animals,
plants, theory, models, phylogenetics, genomics, experi-
mental evolution
Why does life diversify into multiple species? Why do
some taxa diversify into clearly distinct species whereas
others have blurred species boundaries? Does selectionfavour complete speciation or porous species bound-
aries? Or are species instead an incidental consequence
of long-term isolation of populations?
Answering these questions requires knowledge of the
rates and determinants of the multiple steps by which
speciation occurs. First, an existing species must en-
counter conditions that favour divergence into separate
species. Second, it must respond to those conditions and
evolve population dierences and restrictions to gene
ow. Third, the descendant species must coexist and
persist. Fourth, some of the descendant species must
encounter new conditions that favour further diversi-
cation, for example by expanding their ranges.
We currently have good understanding of some parts
(e.g. genetics of speciation, diversity patterns), but poor
knowledge of others - especially how ecological condi-
tions inuence each step of diversication. Experiments
that quantify key processes over multiple generations
have been lacking - much of our understanding comes
from observational evidence. In short, we lack the kind
of robust theory and evidence that is available for other
ecological and evolutionary processes.
The goal of this PhD is to build synthetic understanding
of speciation by assembling information on the multiple
steps in the process. The student will use several ap-
proaches to tackle the problem including 2 or more of
the following:
1) Mathematical or computational modelling, combining
macroevolutionary and population genetic approaches
to model speciation dynamics
2) Comparative population genetics to quantify the na-
ture of species boundaries and estimate the rates of
dierent stages in speciation. An existing system that
could be adopted is the owering plants of the Cape
region of South Africa
3) 'Speciation in action' in the laboratory - using exper-
imental evolution to determine the conditions aecting
selection on species boundaries. Existing systems that
could be adopted include wild yeasts or tree-hole bacte-
ria.
4) Meta-analyses of published data from a range of
animal, plant and/or microbial groups, including the
analysis of emerging whole genome data.
The balance of approaches will be exible based on the
student's interests and would be developed in discus-
sion to address current gaps in understanding. If you
have strong interests in evolutionary biology and you
are keen to develop theoretical, molecular, experimen-
tal, eld and/or molecular skills, then this is the PhD
for you! Motivation to develop your own ideas is more38 EvolDir January 1, 2017
important than existing experience in the above areas,
which can be learned during the PhD.
For more information on topics and approaches currently
used in the group, visit barralab.ic.ac.uk.
To apply:
Please send a covering letter explaining your interests
and experience, your CV and names of 2 referees to Tim
Barraclough at t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk before the
16th January 2017.
Eligibility:
Applicants will have, or be about to obtain, a Masters
qualication and a 2.1 or higher undergraduate degree.
Exceptional students at Bachelors level without a Mas-
ters will also be considered. Relevant post-graduate
experience will also be taken into account.
NERC-funded studentships are subject to RCUK eli-
gibility requirements, which are outlined under \Stu-
dent eligibility" and \Residence Requirements" on the
RCUK website. In short you should be a citizen of
the UK or other EU country and have been resid-
ing in the UK for the last 3 years (apart from tem-
porary or occasional absences). More information at
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/how-to-apply/ I
am happy to discuss other scholarship options with
students not meeting these criteria.
\Barraclough, Tim G" <t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialC London
EvolutionMicrobialCommunities
PhD on 'The evolutionary dynamics of microbial com-
munities'
Departments of Life Sciences and Mathematics, Impe-
rial College London, based at Silwood Park Campus,
UK.
Competition-funded as part of the NERC Centre for
Doctoral Training in Quantitative and Modelling Skills
in Ecology and Evolution (QMEE).
Supervisors: Prof Tim Barraclough (Life Sciences) and
Prof Mauricio Barahona (Mathematics)
Microbial communities underpin many ecosystem ser-
vices that human populations depend upon. Nutrient
cycling, waste-water treatment and the digestive sys-
tems of animals all depend on the combined actions of
hundreds or thousands of interacting species. Under-standing of microbial diversity has been revolutionised
by metagenomics. Yet, it remains extremely hard to
predict microbial dynamics in response to changing con-
ditions, such as climate change, pollution or a change
in diet. General theory for the dynamics of bacteria
embedded in diverse systems is lacking.
Current models of microbial ecosystem functions of-
ten treat the community as a black-box - ignoring the
fact that responses will depend on how metabolic func-
tions and traits are packaged among interacting species.
Critically, models and data are needed that incorpo-
rate evolution, since microbes can rapidly adapt to new
conditions. Ecological interactions alter evolutionary
responses and vice versa, but tracking evolution in di-
verse microbial assemblages is hard. Models are needed
to shape predictions and to develop new methods for
statistical inference from metagenome data.
In this PhD, you will develop new theory for predict-
ing evolutionary and functional dynamics of microbial
communities facing changing conditions. Over-arching
questions include: how predictable are evolutionary dy-
namics in systems with hundreds of species, does evolu-
tion of constituent species promote or disrupt ecosystem
functioning and stability and can we use evolutionary
theory to guide human interventions in microbial com-
munities, for example creating designer microbiomes?
The building blocks will be models that predict bacte-
rial growth (and consequently species interactions) from
their use of metabolites. In a decomposer community,
input resources are broken down successively by dierent
populations of bacteria into a set of output resources.
Depending on context, we might want to optimise the
breakdown of inputs (e.g. wood pulp waste), or produc-
tion of intermediates (e.g. short-chain fatty acids in the
human gut) or end-products (e.g. methane in biofuels).
You will develop mechanistic models of microbial com-
munities to predict dynamics and devise statistical meth-
ods for detecting evolutionary dynamics from omic
data, for example using network modelling (2). In-
teraction networks can be extracted from data using
graph-theoretical methods for geometric dimensionality
reduction as well as sparsication techniques from statis-
tics. Predictions and statistical methods will be tested
on real data - either from the literature or evolution
experiments (3), depending on your interests. Vali-
dated models will then be used to identify conditions
that promote particular dynamic outcomes and to de-
sign evolutionary strategies for improving functioning of
microbiomes that humans rely on. The project will com-
bine microbial ecology and evolution with mathematics
and statistics.
To apply:January 1, 2017 EvolDir 39
Please send a covering letter explaining your interests
and experience, your CV and names of 2 referees to Tim
Barraclough at t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk before the
19th January 2017.
Eligibility:
Applicants will have, or be about to obtain, a Masters
qualication and a 2.1 or higher undergraduate degree.
Exceptional students at Bachelors level without a Mas-
ters will also be considered. Relevant post-graduate
experience will also be taken into account.
NERC-funded studentships are subject to RCUK eli-
gibility requirements, which are outlined under \Stu-
dent eligibility" and \Residence Requirements" on the
RCUK website. In short you should be a citizen of
the UK or other EU country and have been residing
in the UK for the last 3 years (apart from temporary
or occasional absences). More information at http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/how-to-apply/ A limited
number of studentships might also be available to stu-
dents not meeting the UK residency requirements.
References:
(1) Barraclough, TG 2015 How do species interactions
aect evolutionary dynamics across whole communities?
Ann Rev Ecol Evol Syst 46:25-48 (2) Bacik KA, Schaub
MT, Beguerisse-D az M, Billeh YN, Barahona M 2016
Flow-based network analysis of the Caenorhabditis el-
egans connectome. PLoS Comput Biol 12: e1005055
(3) Lawrence, D, Fiegna F, Behrends, V, Bundy, JG,
Phillimore, AB, Bell, T and Barraclough TG 2012.
Species interactions alter evolutionary responses to a
novel environment. PLoS Biology 10: e1001330.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ImperialC London
EvolutionSexualBehaviours
The evolution of sexual behaviours: developing and test-
ing biological models of non-reproductive sex, including
homosexuality
SUITABLE FOR STUDENT WITH EITHER MATH-
EMATICAL OR BIOLOGICAL STUDY BACK-
GROUNDSupervisor:
Professor Vincent Savolainen; Imperial College London,
Life Sciences
Co-supervised by: Dr Richard Everitt (University of
Reading; Mathematics and Statistics); Dr Jason Hodg-
son and Professor Emeritus Russ Lande FRS, Imperial
College; in collaboration with Dr Emily Bethell (Liver-
pool John Moores University)
Project summary:
Sexual behaviour takes multiple forms across organisms,
and although it has evolved for reproduction, it also
serves other social purposes. Across species, males usu-
ally have sex with females (heterosexuality), however
this is not always the case, and there are numerous
possible variations. For example, homosexual behaviour
is common throughout the animal world, and has often
been considered an evolutionary paradox. The existence
of the supposed paradox is likely a conuence of the
assumption that those who engage in homosexuality
fail to reproduce, coupled with cultural disapproval of
homosexual behaviour. Some of this confusion may also
stem from the fact that most researchers have considered
sexuality to be a binary trait with either homosexual
or heterosexual trait states. If sexual preference is a
continuous trait inuenced by many dierent genes of
small eect, or some epigenetic marks canalizing a 'mo-
saic' development, then the persistence of homosexual
behaviour is not particularly surprising. The seeming
Darwinian paradox of homosexual behaviour has led
to the development of several biological models to ex-
plain its prevalence. Most models fall into two broad
categories: genetic and epigenetic models. Genetic mod-
els typically explain the persistence of a hypothetical
homosexual gene variant (allele) through some indi-
rect evolutionary advantage for that variant (e.g. see
Savolainen & Lehmann, Nature 445:158, 2007). Epige-
netic models explain homosexual behaviour as a result
of heritable changes in gene expression patterns due
to chemical modications that occur to the DNA of
developing organisms (Rice et al., Quarterly Review of
Biology 87:343, 2012). These models each make clear
predictions, however, there is only limited support for
any of them. Also, these models may be too simplistic
to account for the complexity of behaviours found in the
wild. Furthermore, Savolainen & Hodgson (Encyclopae-
dia of Evolutionary Psychology, in press) have proposed
an alternative model, the bisexual advantage model,
whereby homosexuality is a quantitative trait controlled
by many loci. This bisexual advantage model is perhaps
the most conservative genetic explanation for the persis-
tence of homosexual behaviour because sexuality would
then follow the pattern of the vast majority of quantita-40 EvolDir January 1, 2017
tive traits where intermediate phenotypes are favoured
(Lande, Genetics Research 26:221, 1976). It may be the
case that some degree of bisexuality is actually an evolu-
tionary optimum phenotype in many species, including
humans. The student will formalize mathematically
models for the evolution of non-reproductive sexual be-
haviours depending on the ecology of species, and also
including the bisexual advantage model proposed above.
The student will make predictions using mathemati-
cal genetics, computer simulations and computing tools
such as machine deep learning. S/he will also use and/or
collect behavioural data in a well-established eld sys-
tem to test these predictions. This project will integrate
approaches from evolutionary biology, animal behaviour,
genetics and mathematical biology to disentangle the
evolutionary ecology of sexual behaviours in natural
environments, while addressing a problem with large
social implications in human societies.
HOW TO APPLY:
You should send to v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk: (1) an
extended CV detailing your academic credentials and
research experience; (2) a covering letter explaining in
details how your would t and why you are interested
in (3) the Centre for Doctoral Training in Quantitative
and Modelling Skills in Ecology & Evolution (http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/) and (4) that project;
(5) the names and e-mail addresses of two academic
referees (at least one of them should have supervised
you on a previous research project).
SUITABLE FOR STUDENT WITH EITHER MATH-
EMATICAL OR BIOLOGICAL STUDY BACK-
GROUND
DEADLINE 19 JANUARY 2017
Note that you should meet the UK NERC eligibility
criteria (i.e. be a resident in the UK)
Prof. Vincent Savolainen Professor of Organis-
mic Biology Department of Life Sciences Impe-
rial College London, Silwood Park Campus Buck-
hurst Road, SL5 7PY Ascot, Berks, UK Tel:
+44 (0)20 7594 2374 Fax: +44 (0)20 7594 2339
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk skype vincent.savolainen1
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlImperialC London
PopGenomicsChytrid
Population genetics of amphibian-killing fungi: from big
genomic data to big ecological insights
SUPERVISORS:
Dr Matteo Fumagalli (Imperial College London, Life
Sciences), Professor Matthew Fisher (Imperial College
London, Infectious Disease Epidemiology), Dr Richard
Everitt (University of Reading, Mathematics and Statis-
tics)
PROJECT SUMMARY:
The amphibian chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium den-
drobatidis (Bd) is responsible for hundreds of species'
extinctions (Fisher et al. Nature. 2012). The genetic
mechanisms that underpin Bd's virulence are not known
yet, although extreme chromosomal plasticity has been
suggested to play a role (Farrer et al. PLoS Genet.
2013). Large-scale genomic data from worldwide iso-
lates, coupled with appropriate computational methods,
will provide us with an opportunity to address how
virulent Bd strains spread around the globe.
This project will encompass three main aims: (i) the
improvement of computational methods for large-scale
high-throughput sequencing data from mixed-ploidy
genome, (ii) the development of a comprehensive bioin-
formatics platform, (iii) the extension of the methods
developed in previous aims to genomic data of Bd iso-
lates distributed worldwide.
HOW TO APPLY:
This project is suitable for students with either a quan-
titative or empirical background. Applicants should be
meet the UK NERC eligibility criteria.
To apply, please follow instructions provided at the
Centre for Doctoral Training in Quantitative and
Modelling Skills in Ecology & Evolution (http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/). Informal inquiries can
be addressed to m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.uk
DEADLINE 19 JANUARY 2017
Matteo Fumagalli Department of Life Sciences Im-
perial College London Silwood Park Campus Munro
Building, N1.6 Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY, UK Tel:
+44 (0)20 7594 3793 m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.ukJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 41
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/m.fumagalli
m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.uk
LMU Munich Paleobiology
*Applications invited for the Master's program \Geo-
biology and Paleobiology" (MGAP) at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) Munich (Germany) for
international students until 31 Jan 2017*
The Master's program \Geobiology and Paleobiology"
(MGAP) is a consecutive, research-focussed, two-year
Master of Science program at the Faculty of Geosciences
of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) Munich,
in collaboration with researchers of the Bavarian Natu-
ral History Collections and the GeoBio-Center @ LMU.
MGAP aims to provide students with a comprehensive
introduction into the interdisciplinary research elds of
geobiology and paleobiology to prepare them for careers
in science and beyond.
The MGAP program is based on interdisciplinary,
research-oriented courses in geo- and biosciences that
address patterns and processes of the evolution of life
and its habitats on our planet. Principal topics are
evolutionary and environmental geobiology and paleo-
biology, supported by courses in complementary areas
e.g., bioinformatics and statistics.
The module-based curriculum provides an integrative ap-
proach facilitated by experts in dierent areas of exper-
tise. Students will learn and acquire routines with a wide
range of scientic methods such as modern techniques
in molecular biology, eldwork, collection management,
comparative morphology & phylogeny, bioinformatics,
statistics and (paleo-) biodiversity assessments. Stu-
dents will learn independent scientic work in individ-
ual and intensively supervised research projects at early
stages of the curriculum.
*MGAP in brief*
- International Master's program in Geobiology and
Paleobiology (Master of Science, M.Sc.) at the LMU
Munich
- 2 years, 4 semesters, start in October (winter semester)
- All courses taught in English
- Courses are combined in Modules
- Course total: 120 credit points (ECTS)
More information is available on the program's website:<http://www.mgap.geo.uni-muenchen.de >
For the winter semester 2017-2018 (courses start mid-
October), application deadlines are as follows:
1. January 31, 2017 for international students (non-
EU students and EU students (non-German)), appli-
cations are possible now: <http://www.mgap.geo.uni-
muenchen.de/admission >
2. February 15 to May 31, 2017 for German and EU
students.
All applications have to be submitted via an online
submission portal:
< https://www.efv.verwaltung.uni-muenchen.de/-
mageopal >The Department of Earth- and Envi-
ronmental Sciences (Division of Palaeontology &
Geobiology) of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
Munich oers an excellent multidisciplinary research
and learning environment, one of its particular strength
being the close interaction between Geosciences,
the Biological Faculty, and the Bavarian Natural
History collections ( <http://www.snsb.de >) in
the framework of the GeoBioCenter@ LMU ( <
http://www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de >).
The LMU Munich is the leading research university in
Germany, with a more than 500-year-long tradition, and
builds upon its success in the Excellence Initiative, a
Germany-wide competition promoting top-level univer-
sity research. LMU Munich also has been successful
in the \Qualit atspakt Lehre" initiative by the German
Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF)
to promote innovative teaching and learning. Munich
has also been repeatedly voted Germany's most liveable
city.
Oliver Voigt <oliver.voigt@lmu.de >
MississippiStateU EvoDevo
Research in the Range lab deals with fundamental ques-
tions in animal evolution and development - how signal
transduction interactions control the gene regulatory net-
works that establish specic territories along the major
axes during early embryogenesis. Most of our research fo-
cuses on understanding how a network of three dierent
Wnt signaling branches (Wnt/Beta-catenin, Wnt/JNK,
and Wnt/Ca2+) coordinate the regulatory networks
that establish territories along the anterior-posterior
axis in sea urchin embryos. Remarkably, functional42 EvolDir January 1, 2017
and expression studies in other metazoans (vertebrates,
urochordates, hemichordates, echinoderms and cnidar-
ians) suggest that many aspects of this Wnt network
governing AP axis specication in the sea urchin might
have existed in the common ancestor of bilaterians and
cnidarians.
We are recruiting a talented PhD student to work on a
NIH funded project beginning in the Fall of 2017. The
project will focus on the role of the Wnt/JNK pathway
and the gene regulatory network it activates during AP
axis specication and patterning in sea urchin embryos.
A secondary focus will be on the conservation of this
mechanism during hemichordate AP axis specication
and patterning. The position oers training in a com-
bination of molecular manipulations, high-throughput
genome-wide assays and bioinformatics, gene regulatory
network analysis as well as classical embryology.
Interested applicants should contact Dr. Ryan Range at
range@biology.msstate.edu. With your inquiry, please
include a CV, unocial transcript, and unocial copy
of your GRE scores if available.
Mississippi State University is situated in the quintessen-
tial college town of Starkville and is located close to
several major cities (e.g. New Orleans, Memphis, Birm-
ingham) as well as the beaches along the Gulf of Mexico.
You can learn more about the Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences at Mississippi State University at http://-
biology.msstate.edu . Applications for the fall are ac-
cepted until June 1st, 2017. Please contact Dr. Range
if you would like to be considered for recruitment day
in late February/early March 2017.
Recent publications related to the position:
Integration of canonical and non-canonical Wnt sig-
naling pathways patterns the neuroectoderm along
the anterior-posterior axis of sea urchin embryos.
Range RC, Angerer RC, Angerer LM. PLoS Biol.
2013;11(1):e1001467. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001467.
PMID: 23335859
Specication and positioning of the anterior neuroecto-
derm in deuterostome embryos. Range R. Genesis. 2014
Mar;52(3):222-34. doi: 10.1002/dvg.22759. Review.
PMID: 24549984
An anterior signaling center patterns and sizes the an-
terior neuroectoderm of the sea urchin embryo. Range
RC, Wei Z. Development. 2016 May 1;143(9):1523-33.
doi: 10.1242/dev.128165. PMID: 26952978
Ryan C. Range Assistant Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences Mississippi State University P.O. Box GY, 295
E. Lee Blvd Mississippi State, MS 39762
E-mail: range@biology.msstate.edu Phone: 662-325-7569
\Range, Ryan" <range@biology.msstate.edu >
MonashU MarineEvolEcol
Two PhD positions available: the evolutionary ecology
of marine heterotrophs. by dustinmeeg
Two fully-funded PhD stipends are available to students
interested in working on the evolutionary ecology of
marine heterotrophs in the Centre for Geometric Biol-
ogy (https://cgb.org.au). Prof Dustin Marshall is the
director of the Centre and Prof Craig White is deputy-
director, however the specics of the project and the
most appropriate supervisors from the CGB will de-
pend on the interests of the successful students and
collaboration between student and supervisor.
The stipends include all course fees plus ~ $26,288 AUD
per annum tax-free with no teaching requirements for
3.5 years (the length of a PhD in Australia). Domestic
students (Australian and New Zealand) will be eligible
for 'top up funding' to a total stipend of $30,000. Guar-
anteed funding of project costs and research support,
including the costs of attending at least one conference
per year, is included
Project start dates to be in the rst half of 2017.
To be eligible, applicants must have completed at least
one year of post-graduate research in ecology and/or
evolution.
Successful applicants will hold a BSc H1 or equivalent
(rst class honours degree) or a Masters by research
degree and preference will be given to those with strong
quantitative skills and publications in international jour-
nals.
Any oers made by the CGB are subject to acceptance
by Monash University.
Interested students should send a CV, brief state-
ment of interests and contact details of two referees to
Liz.Morris@monash.edu Application closing date Jan-
uary 22 ^nd 2017.
Dr. Liz Morris Administration Manager Centre for Ge-
ometric Biology School of Biological Sciences Monash
University Clayton, Vic 3800 Australia Mob: +61 3 404
069 210 Email: Liz.Morris@monash.edu
Liz Morris <liz.morris@monash.edu >January 1, 2017 EvolDir 43
RiceU EvolutionaryBiol
Graduate Coordinator jBioSciences at Rice University
jmarya@rice.edu j
W131 George R. Brown Hall - MS 140 j713-348-4230
(phone) / 713-348-4790 (fax)
The Graduate Program in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology in the Department of BioSciences at Rice Uni-
versity invites applications for admission into our PhD
program. The department is home to a vibrant commu-
nity of faculty, postdoctoral, graduate, and undergrad-
uate scholars in ecology and evolution. Our program
has particular strengths in population and community
ecology, behavioral ecology, conservation biology, evolu-
tionary ecology, speciation, and evolutionary genetics
and genomics.
We are located in Houston, Texas, an exciting, diverse,
and aordable city with world-class opportunities for
dining, arts, and entertainment and access to diverse
terrestrial and aquatic environments. Rice is located be-
side one of the country's largest medical research centers,
providing additional opportunities in bioinformatics, ge-
nomics, and translational research.
Completed applications should be received by December
31 to ensure full consideration. There is no application
fee for US citizens and permanent residents. Prospective
applicants are encouraged to contact potential faculty
advisors before applying. Complete information about
the graduate program, including application instruc-
tions, may be found at https://biosciences.rice.edu
Mary Aycock <marya@rice.edu >
RiceU:PopGenConservation
The Egan Lab at Rice University is looking for a prospec-
tive PhD student to participate in a set of grant-funded
projects linking population genetics, conservation biol-
ogy, and biodiversity monitoring.
Our lab is broadly interested in integrative evolution-
ary biology, including studies of ecology, evolution, and
population genetics. Primary work in the lab focuses onthe evolution of ecological specialization, the evolution
of new species, and applied projects dealing with con-
servation and/or the genetic detection of rare species
(invasive, endangered, or dangerous). Current funding
the lab supports two projects: (1.) linking population
genetics with environmental monitoring of rare species
and (2.) genetic biodiversity monitoring of entire aquatic
communities. Students with experience in molecular
genetics and bioinformatics are strongly encouraged to
apply.
The Department of BioSciences at Rice University is
home to a vibrant community of faculty, postdoctoral,
graduate, and undergraduate scholars in Ecology and
Evolution, Biochemistry, Cell Biology, Genetics and Neu-
roscience. Our EEB program has particular strengths
in species interactions, animal behavior, population and
community ecology, conservation biology, evolutionary
ecology, and evolutionary genetics and genomics.
Completed applications should be received by December
31 to ensure full consideration. There is no application
fee for US citizens and permanent residents. Prospective
applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the Egan
Lab before applying. Complete information about the
graduate program, including application instructions,
may be found at http://biosciences.rice.edu . For more
information, please contact Scott Egan and include a
CV, GPA, and GRE scores.
Scott P. Egan, Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology, Department of BioSciences, Rice Uni-
versity, Houston, TX
Email: scott.p.egan@rice.edu; Website:
https://sites.google.com/site/scottpegan/
\scott.p.egan@rice.edu" <scott.p.egan@rice.edu >
StellenboschU
LizardColourEvolution
PhD opportunity (2017-2019)
Project title: The thermal properties of lizard coloured
integument: mechanisms and evolution
Project summary: Colouration in animals can be shaped
by a multitude of factors, from chemical and physical
properties of the skin to higher-level drivers of colour
variation such as natural and sexual selection. While a
lot of the focus has been directed to the role of colour in
signalling and camouage, much less has been devoted
to the potential role that colour plays in thermal rela-44 EvolDir January 1, 2017
tions and its adaptive signicance. Using a combination
of techniques, this project aims to investigate the ther-
mal eects of coloured integumentary tissue in lizards
from both a proximate and ultimate perspective by 1)
characterizing thermal properties of dierently-coloured
integument, 2) elucidating form-function relationships
for dierent colour production mechanisms (including
iridescence) through optical and heat-transfer models
and 3) explore the role of thermal eects in the evolution
of animal coloration.
This project is part of a collaboration between Prof.
Matthew Shawkey (Dept. of Biology, Ghent Uni-
versity, Belgium, http://users.ugent.be/ ~mshawkey/-
Shawkeys Lab/Home.html) and Prof. Susana Clusella-
Trullas (CL*I*M*E Lab, Dept. Botany and Zool-
ogy, Stellenbosch University, South Africa, http://-
www.clusellatrullas.blogspot.co.za/).
The student will be based at Stellenbosch University,
will perform eld work in South Africa and will receive
training in histological methods and heat-exchange mod-
eling approaches at the University of Ghent. Applicants
must be highly motivated and committed, independent,
have an excellent academic track record and preferably
have a good publication record and advanced analytical
skills. All project running costs have been secured and
the selected applicant will be able to start immediately
(2017).
To apply, please send a CV with contact information of
3 academic referees, academic transcripts and a personal
statement describing your research interests and past
experience (max. 500 words) to sct333@sun.ac.za. Re-
view of applications will begin from the 16th of January
2017 and short-listed candidates will be contacted to
set up interviews by phone or skype.
Susana Clusella-Trullas Associate Professor - Physio-
logical Ecology Department of Botany and Zoology &
Centre for Invasion Biology Stellenbosch University Pri-
vate Bag X1 - Stellenbosch 7602 South Africa Tel: +27
21 808 3974
http://clusellatrullas.blogspot.co.za/ \Clusella-Trullas,
S, Prof <sct333@sun.ac.za >"<sct333@sun.ac.za >
StonyBrookU NY
AnthropologicalGenomics
The Veeramah Lab (*http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/-
veeramahlab/index.html*) is looking to recruit two PhDStudents to begin in Fall 2017. The primary focus of
the lab is examining genetic diversity in human and
non-human primates. The lab currently has ongoing
projects examining primate evolution through genomic
scale data, as well as a variety of paleogenomic projects
involving European human and non-human populations.
The exact research project topics for potential students
are exible, but those individuals looking to perform
research within the general research themes of the lab
will be preferred. Applicants must hold a university
degree.
Please note that while interested applicants are encour-
aged to contact Krishna Veeramah before applying, stu-
dents wishing to join the lab must ultimately apply
to the Stony Brook Interdepartmental Doctoral Pro-
gram in Anthropological Sciences (IDPAS). All rele-
vant information for this program can be found at the
website (http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/idpas/-
applying.html) and a link to the application can be found
at https://app.applyyourself.com/AYApplicantLogin/-
ApplicantLogin.asp?id=sunysb-gs .Please note that
the deadline for receipt of all Ph.D. application materials
is January 15th, 2017. Earlier submissions are encour-
aged, particularly for those wishing to be considered
for Campus wide Graduate Council Fellowships and W.
Burghardt Turner Fellowships.
Prospective students are encouraged to address spe-
cic questions to the IDPAS Program Coordinator (ID-
PAS Director@stonybrook.edu) or to Krishna Veeramah
(*krishna.veeramah@stonybrook.edu*).
Krishna Veeramah <krishna.veeramah@stonybrook.edu >
TexasAMU 2
SocialInsectPhylogenomics
Openings for two PhD positions are anticipated to study
molecular ecology and phylogenomics of social insects
and possibly other urban arthropod pests in the lab-
oratory of Ed Vargo in the Department of Entomol-
ogy at Texas A&M University. The Vargo lab (http:/-
/urbanentomology.tamu.edu/) is a dynamic research
group housed in the Rollins Urban and Structural Fa-
cility, a state of the art research and training facility.
Our research focuses on population genetics and colony
breeding structure of urban insect pests, primarily ter-
mites and ants. Research topics in the lab include
the invasion biology of termites, ants, bed bugs and
cockroaches using phylogenomic approaches, causes andJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 45
consequences of colony breeding structure in ants and
termites, the genetic and behavioral basis of disease
immunity in social insects, and management of urban
pests.
Students will develop specic research projects based on
their interests and aptitudes that t within the research
areas explored by the lab.
Candidates should have some background in molecular
ecology and/or entomology with an interest in one or
more of the following areas: population genetics, ge-
nomics/bioinformatics, invasion biology and behavioral
ecology.
The Department of Entomology at Texas A&M Univer-
sity (http://entomology.tamu.edu/) is one of the leading
entomology departments in the U.S. and oers outstand-
ing graduate training, excellent facilities and competitive
stipends. In addition Ed Vargo is a faculty member in
the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology interdisciplinary
doctoral program (http://eeb.tamu.edu/) consisting of
faculty across campus. Pursuing a degree in the EEB
program is an option. Texas A&M University is lo-
cated in College Station, a small but vibrant college
town located near other major cities in Texas (Houston,
Austin, San Antonio) oering an abundance of cultural
attractions.
Interested applicants should send a C.V., a brief state-
ment about research interests, (unocial) transcripts,
GRE scores and contact information for three references
to ed.vargo@tamu.edu. Starting date is Summer 2017.
{ Ed Vargo Professor and Endowed Chair in Urban and
Structural Entomology Department of Entomology 2556
F&B Rd., Building 1804 2143 TAMU Texas A&M Uni-
versity College Station, TX 77843-2143, U.S.A.
Email: ed.vargo@tamu.edu Tel.: 979-845-5855 Fax.:
979-845-5926 Skype: ed.vargo Web page: http:/-
/urbanentomology.tamu.edu/ \Vargo, Edward L"
<ed.vargo@tamu.edu >
TexasAMU Evolution
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Doctoral Pro-
gram at Texas A&M is pleased to announce the availabil-
ity of travel grants for prospective PhD students. These
travel grants, which will be awarded on a competitive
basis, will cover the costs of a domestic ight to and
from College Station, hotel accommodations while in
College Station, plus a per diem for meals. The aim ofthe travel grant is to provide prospective PhD students
the opportunity to:
-Interview with faculty and meet current graduate stu-
dents -Tour the department and campus to learn about
available resources and facilities -Explore College Sta-
tion and its surrounding areas
Travel grants will be awarded in January with travel
scheduled for February 5-7, 2016. Travel grant awardees
will spend time together during their visit, thus gaining
immediate insights into their future cohort.
Why should you consider obtaining a PhD at Texas
A&M University? The Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (EEB) Program at Texas A&M is a relatively
new doctoral program at one of the largest and best-
funded universities in the United States. It has a strong
mixture of nationally and internationally recognized ju-
nior and senior faculty working across the globe on a
diverse range of basic and applied research, spanning
physiological, population, community, ecosystem and
landscape ecology, genetics, genomics, behavior, and
systematics (to learn about our faculty visit: http://-
eeb.tamu.edu/people/faculty/). Support for graduate
study is available through multiple sources, including
teaching assistantships, research fellowships, and inter-
nal merit fellowships. Texas A&M University is posi-
tioned in Blackland Prairie and Post Oak Savannah
habitat, which supports great species diversity and a
wealth of research opportunities with great year-round
climate. Its location also provides a good base for ac-
cess to a broad range of habitats and research sites.
Additionally, its proximity to Austin, Dallas, Houston
and San Antonio oers easy air travel and a cultural
component to a whole graduate experience.
How to apply? To be considered for a travel grant,
prospective PhD students rst need to contact Jason
Martina, the EEB Program Coordinator (email: jp-
martina@tamu.edu; phone: 979 845-2114). To receive a
travel grant, an ocial Graduate Application package
must be submitted to the EEB Program. For additional
information about the EEB Program and the graduate
application process please visit: http://eeb.tamu.edu
For consideration for merit fellowships, your application
needs to be received by January 1, 2017
{ Jessica E. Light Associate Professor and Curator of
Mammals Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sci-
ences Biodiversity Research and Teaching Collections
Texas A&M University College Station, TX 77843
Phone: 979-458-4357 http://www.jessicalight.org/
\jlight2@tamu.edu" <jlight2@tamu.edu >46 EvolDir January 1, 2017
TrentU
WildlifeDiseaseGenomicsBats
PhD Opportunity in Wildlife Disease Genetics - Trent
University/Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources and
Forestry
We are seeking a graduate student (preferably a Ph.D
candidate) to perform research in the realm of bat ge-
nomics in relation to rapid changes in selective pressures
from disease.
Infectious diseases are critically important in species
adaptation, evolution, and persistence. However, cli-
matic changes are altering disease dynamics many sys-
tems by promoting the invasion of novel diseases and
disease vectors. We intend to investigate the capacity
of bats to adapt to rapid changes in pathogen-mediated
selection, and thus assess threats to their persistence.
One approach for understanding adaptation to disease
is to examine the correlation between the geographic dis-
tribution of host immunogenetic variation and of disease
variants, with these correlations interpreted relative to
demographic parameters that also inuence the distri-
bution of adaptive and non-adaptive genetic variation.
We are seeking a student to take an adaptive landscape
genomics approach to investigate contemporary evolu-
tion and demographic constraints on local adaptation
among coevolved and na ve disease vectors. This work
will take place within a collaborative group of Trent
University and Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources
and Forestry (OMNRF) researchers investigating bat
declines and White Nose fugus.
The successful candidate will also be encouraged to
develop/explore independent research within the frame-
work of existing funding. This research will be con-
ducted within the Natural Resources DNA Proling and
Forensic Centre (www.nrdpfc.ca). Applicants would
ideally hold a MSc in Landscape/Population Genetics
or Bioinformatics, and have experience processing large
data sets from massively parallel sequencing platforms.
There may also be an opportunity to participate in
eld work. Previous experience working with bats is
preferred but not required. Candidates must be willing
to be vaccinated against rabies. All candidates should
submit a letter of application and research interest, cur-
riculum vitae, and names and contact information for
three referees to Drs. Kyle and Davy. The position
will commence as soon as possible but no later thanSeptember 2017. Applications will be accepted until a
suitable candidate has been found.
Dr. C. J. Kyle, Associate Professor Forensic Science
Department, DNA Building, Trent University christo-
pherkyle@trentu.ca
Dr. C. Davy, Research Scientist Ontario Ministry of Nat-
ural Resources and Forestry Christina.davy@ontario.ca
Additional Information: The Natural Resources DNA
Proling and Forensic Centre (NRDPFC) is located
within the new DNA building of Trent University (Peter-
borough, Ontario, Canada). We have separate genomic
DNA and DNA cloning laboratories for molecular work
and also an automation laboratory for high throughput
sample preparation. Our facility also includes access
to a bio-containment Level II lab for processing poten-
tially infectious tissues and an Indigenous Pathogen
Containment Level III (IPCL 3) laboratory located in
the DNA building that is certied for several indigenous
pathogens, including the rabies virus.
Peterborough is a vibrant community a 1.5 hour drive
from Toronto and the Pearson International Airport
(http://www.peterborough.ca/Living.htm)
Christopher Kyle <christopherkyle@trentu.ca >
TulaneU RainforestEvolutionaryEcol
Subject Line: PhD Opportunity in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Message:
The Karubian Lab (http://karubian.tulane.edu) is seek-
ing applications from prospective PhD students inter-
ested in tropical rainforest evolutionary ecology and
conservation, with a focus on palm trees in Ecuador.
Students will be encouraged to develop independent
research that combines eldwork on ecological processes
(e.g., dispersal, competition, survival) with laboratory-
based analyses (e.g., genomics, transcriptomics) to bet-
ter understand the forces that regulate patterns of diver-
sity within and among species. In doing so, students will
build upon previous and ongoing NSF-funded work in
the Karubian lab that links behavior of dispersal agents
to seed and pollen movement; characterizes ecological
and genetic drivers of non-random seedling survival; and
documents how naturally occurring environmental vari-
ation interacts with human activities to shape patterns
of diversity. Please see http://karubian.tulane.edu/-
publications/ and http://karubian.tulane.edu/research/-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 47
plant-animal-interactions/ for more information.
The Karubian lab has a strong commitment to linking
our research to real world conservation outcomes via
meaningful engagement with local communities in the
areas where we work. Incoming students are encouraged
to participate in and contribute to this eort. Please
see http://karubian.tulane.edu/engagement/overview/
for more information.
The Karubian lab is based at the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology at Tulane University, in New
Orleans LA. We have an outstanding and supportive
group of students and faculty. Ph.D. students in good
standing receive TA-ships that cover stipend and tuition
costs during their time at Tulane. Competitive fellow-
ships and in-house research support are also available.
The deadline for applying is January 15, 2017. Please
see http://www2.tulane.edu/sse/eebio/academics/-
graduate/apply.cfm for more information. Prior to
applying, interested students should contact Dr. Jordan
Karubian (jk@tulane.edu) with a statement of interest
and CV. Students from Latin America and from
under-represented groups in ecology and evolution are
particularly encouraged to apply.
{ Jordan Karubian Associate Professor Ecology & Evo-
lutionary Biology Tulane University (504) 865-5549
jk@tulane.edu karubian.tulane.edu
Jordan Karubian <jk@tulane.edu >
UAkron
EvolutionPlantMatingSystems
A PhD assistantship is available for Fall 2017, in Randy
Mitchell's laboratory at The University of Akron. A
portion of the student's research must focus on empirical
exploration of the eects of ecological context (pollina-
tor sharing) on pollination biology and mating system of
Mimulus ringens in Ohio and Wisconsin. Beyond that
requirement, there is substantial freedom to develop and
explore many aspects of the general topics of pollination,
and mating systems. The student's research will be part
of a joint project coordinated with Je Karron at the
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee), Dorset Trapnell
(University of Georgia), Emmanuelle Porcher (Mus eum
National d'Histoire Naturelle) and Celine Devaux (Uni-
versit e de Montpellier). This collaborative research will
use empirical and theoretical investigations to test the
hypothesis that interactions with co-owering speciesalter the evolutionary tradeo between outcross siring
and selng. This position includes TA support, and,
pending funding, two years of RA support and summer
stipend.
The Integrated Biosciences PhD program at the Univer-
sity of Akron is a unique interdisciplinary PhD program
where biology is at the interface of research that cuts
across traditional departmental boundaries. IB PhD
students take a synthetic approach in their research and
education, and gain skills and training in how to work
across elds of study. For this project, interdisciplinary
connections to mathematics, geography, or statistics are
promising possibilities. Learn more about the Integrated
Biosciences program at https://www.uakron.edu/ib/ .
And learn more about the Department of Biology at
https://www.uakron.edu/biology/ .
The University of Akron is a state university located
in the heart of Akron, Ohio, near the scenic Cuyahoga
Valley National Park (CVNP). The Biology Department
emphasizes collaborative and integrative research, in-
cluding the PhD program in Integrated Bioscience, and
a MS program in Biology. Facilities include a 400+ acre
eld station, greenhouse, and live animal research center.
We have excellent relations with the CVNP and local
metroparks, which provide access to over 40,000 acres
of potential eld sites within 40 miles. Our graduate
students have been successful in nding employment in
their specialties, including work as professors, consul-
tants, eld technicians, government agents (e.g., EPA,
Department of Natural Resources), park naturalists,
and so forth.
The Biology Department has a strong program in Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology. Areas of interest for
graduate research include: life history evolution, mating
systems, aquatic ecology, pollination biology, wetland
ecology, physiological ecology, isotope ecology, behav-
ioral evolution, spider biology, and evolutionary biome-
chanics.
For more information, contact Randy Mitchell
(rjm2@uakron.edu), and visit https://-
blogs.uakron.edu/mitchell/ \Mitchell,Randall J"
<rjm2@uakron.edu >48 EvolDir January 1, 2017
UAlberta ConvservationGenetics
Graduate Student Opportunity in Molecular Ecology at
the University of Alberta.
I am seeking highly motivated students interested in
pursuing graduate study at either the MSc or Phd level
in molecular ecology, conservation genetics or ecological
genomics to join my research group in the Department
of Biological Sciences at the University of Alberta (
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca) to start in Sept 2017.
The Department of Biological Sciences oers a vibrant
research environment and outstanding research infras-
tructure including next-generation sequencing platforms
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/facilities/. All students
admitted to our graduate program have secured nancial
support for the rst 2 years of a M.Sc. program and the
rst 5 years of a Ph.D. program, at the minimum rate
of approximately $24,000 (M.Sc.) and $24,500 (Ph.D.)
CDN per year, subject to annual review of academic
and teaching performance.
Projects
Research projects in my group involve the devel-
opment and application of molecular markers to
study a range of topics in the ecology and evolu-
tion of wildlife species ( https://scholar.google.ca/-
citations?user=3L1oVhgAAAAJ&hl=en). Projects of-
ten involve close collaboration with eld biologists and
ecologists. Some potential topics include 1) inbreed-
ing dynamics and genomic heterozygosity-tness cor-
relations in red squirrels, 2) the genetic architecture
of tness-related traits in mountain sheep and goats,
and 3) hybridization, prion gene variation and chronic
wasting disease spread in wild deer. I am also open to
ideas and encourage potential applicants to contact me
directly to discuss their interests and suitability.
Application requirements
I am looking for students who have a strong demon-
strated background (BSc or equivalent with minimum
GPA 3.3 on a 4-point scale) in ecology and evolution,
molecular biology or bioinformatics. Experience in the
eld research and/or with molecular techniques is pre-
ferred, and both numeracy and prociency in English
are required.
See details here https://www.ualberta.ca/biological-
sciences/graduate-studies . Contact details
Dr. David W. Coltman (dcoltman@ualberta.ca)Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Alberta
Canada T6G 2E9DA, T6G 2E9
\dcoltman@ualberta.ca" <dcoltman@ualberta.ca >
UBath DinosaurBirdEvolution
Dear colleagues,
Please see the following advertisement for a fully funded
PhD position at the University of Bath, UK, entitled
'Anatomy, phylogeny, and biomechanics across a crucial
interval during the dinosaur-bird transition'.
https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=80679 Funding is available
for UK and EU students; applications from overseas
students with externally-sourced funding will be
accepted year-round.
Please distribute the advertisement to suitable candi-
dates who may be interested.
Best,
Daniel Field
{ Daniel J. Field, PhD Yale University Department of
Geology and Geophysics danieljeld.com
Daniel Field <daniel.eld@yale.edu >
UBath GeneNetworkEvolution
== Adaptive and non-adaptive processes in gene regu-
latory network evolution
== Supervisor: Dr Tiany Taylor <http://-
www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
tiany-taylor/ >; Co-superivsors:* Dr Nick reist
<http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/academics/-
nick priest/ >; Prof Michael Tipping <http://-
www.miketipping.com/ >
==roject Description: It is generally assumed that adap-
tation drives genome evolution. But, there has not beenJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 49
an experimental system to study the evolutionary signif-
icance of non-adaptive processes, such as genetic drift,
mutation and recombination. Using a combination of
experimental and computational methods, this PhD stu-
dentship will identify how adaptive and non-adaptive
processes contribute to the evolution of gene regulatory
networks. Employing our well-established Pseudomonas
system, the project uses experimental evolution in con-
junction with molecular biology and genomics to assess
whether novel mutations aecting gene regulation are
adaptive or non-adaptive. Employing the University's
Balena system (a massively parallel architecture, high-
performance computing platform), the experimental
work will be complimented by simulations of gene regu-
latory network evolution to identify the processes driving
non-adaptive evolutionary patterns. The computational
biology component of the project may also stimulate the
development of techniques in machine learning, to train
computers to recognise patterns of gene networks which
contribute to adaptive and non-adaptive processes in
the context of network evolution.
== Location: This project will be conducted under the
direct supervision of Dr Tiany B. Taylor, and based
within the Department of Biology and Biochemistry at
the University of Bath (UK) in the new Milner Centre
for Evolution (http://www.bath.ac.uk/groups/milner-
centre-for-evolution/).
== Requirements: We are looking for a biology graduate
who has a strong interest in genetics and gene networks,
or a computer science graduate with interests in evolu-
tion and evolutionary theory. Some practical experience
in microbiology and molecular techniques is highly de-
sired but training will be provided to strengthen these
areas. The successful candidate will be enthusiastic,
highly motivated, independent, have experience in mi-
crobiology, molecular biology or evolutionary biology
(or a combination), and have a relevant degree. The
applicant must meet the standard University of Bath
English language requirements. The applicant must be
a UK citizen or an EU citizen who has been residing in
the UK for 3 years prior to appointment.
== Training: The candidate will be trained to use the
University's Balena system and have the opportunity
to develop new approaches to machine learning to help
solve biological problems. In this unique project the
student will also develop laboratory skills in microbiol-
ogy, molecular biology and genomics. To achieve this,
the candidate will require access to the labs - laboratory
training will be provided by Tiany Taylor. They will
also need access to the Balena HC cluster - training
to be provided by Michael Tipping. And in order to
eectively design a computational simulation that is rele-
vant to biological systems, Nick Priest will oer trainingand guidance in theoretical evolution and mathematical
modelling in ecology and evolution.
== lanned start date: 2 October 2017 (3.5 years fund-
ing)
== Contact: For informal enquiries please contact
Tiany Taylor T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk. More infor-
mation can be found at https://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/rojectDetails.aspx?PJID=80595&LIDi ==
Funding Notes: UK and EU students applying for this
project may be considered for a University Research
Studentship which will cover Home/EU tuition fees, a
training support fee of 1000 per annum and a tax-free
maintenance allowance of 14,296 (2016/17 rate) for 3.5
years. This is a competitive funded hD project.
== References: 1. Taylor, T. B. et al. Science, 347
(6225), pp. 1014-1017; 2. Taylor, T. B. et al. 2015. Mi-
crobial Cell Factories, 2 (7), pp. 256-25Warning: base64
decoder saw premature EOF! 8; 3.
Wang, Y.et al. 2015. In: The 13th European Conference
on Articial Life, 2015-07-20 - 2015-07-24.; 4. Alsohim,
A. S. et al. 2014. Environmental Microbiology, 16 (7),
pp. 2267-2281; 5. Lynch, M. 2007. Nature Reviews
Genetics, 8(10): 803-813.
Tiany Taylor <t.b.taylor@bath.ac.uk >
T.B.Taylor@bath.ac.uk
UBath SpeciationGenetics
Genetics of speciation in house mice: Identifying molec-
ular and developmental mechanisms of hybrid male
sterility
Main supervisor: Dr Leslie Turner Second supervisor:
Prof Jason Wolf
Linking genotype to phenotype and tness in nature is
the ultimate goal of most evolutionary genetics research,
but is rarely accomplished in practice. The genes and
molecular mechanisms underlying adaptation and speci-
ation remain largely unknown. The goal of this project
is to determine genetic and developmental causes of
hybrid male sterility, a key reproductive barrier between
house mice subspecies. This research builds on previ-
ous studies identifying genetic variants associated with
reduced fertility in a laboratory cross and in hybrid
zone mice. Characterizing the mechanisms of a single
locus in natural or outbred populations is challenging
due to genetic variability among individuals. To over-50 EvolDir January 1, 2017
come this challenge, we will use a unique set of inbred
mouse strains bred from wild-caught hybrid zone mice
by Dr Turner over the last several years. Leveraging the
power of inbred strains, we can compare nearly iden-
tical wild-derived genomes in multiple individuals and
dierent developmental stages. This novel approach
has great promise for identifying pathways, genes, and
molecular mechanisms contributing to the evolution of
a reproductive barrier in nature.
The student selected for this project will integrate ap-
proaches from evolutionary genomics and reproductive
biology to (1) determine the nature and timing of defects
during spermatogenesis, and (2) functionally evaluate
candidate sterility genes. You will characterize defects
in hybrid lines across a developmental time course. Next,
to identify the most promising candidate genes, you will
combine your results with population genomics and data
mining of available 'omics and knockout data. Finally,
you will evaluate candidate genes using in vitro and in
vivo functional assays.
This project will be based within the Department
of Biology and Biochemistry at the University of
Bath (UK) in the new Milner Centre for Evolu-
tion (http://www.bath.ac.uk/groups/milner-centre-for-
evolution/). The student will gain expertise in both
experimental and bioinformatic approaches from genet-
ics, evolutionary genomics and reproductive biology and
have access to excellent research facilities (e.g., animal
facility, histology, imaging).
Requirements: We are looking for a biology graduate
with a strong background in genetics, evolutionary bi-
ology or reproductive biology. Experience in molecular
techniques is highly desired. The successful candidate
will be motivated, independent, and enthusiastic about
learning diverse skills for interdisciplinary research.
UK and EU students applying for this project may be
considered for a University Research Studentship which
will cover Home/EU tuition fees, a training support fee
of 1000 per annum and a tax-free maintenance allowance
of 14,296 (2016/17 rate) for 3.5 years.
Note: ONLY UK and EU applicants are eligible for the
studentship; unfortunately, applicants who are classed
as Overseas for fee paying purposes are NOT eligible for
funding. We welcome all-year round applications from
self-funded candidates and candidates who can source
their own funding.
Application deadline: January 31, 2017 Anticipated
start date: October 2017
For details about the position/application pro-
cess see: https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=80678 For additionalinformation about research see http://leslieturner.net/
For informal enquiries contact Leslie Turner
L.M.Turner@bath.ac.uk
Leslie M. Turner, Ph.D. Lecturer, Milner Centre
for Evolution Department of Biology and Biochem-
istry University of Bath Claverton Down, Bath BA2
7AY, UK +44 (0)1225 385015 http://leslieturner.net
\L.M.Turner@bath.ac.uk" <L.M.Turner@bath.ac.uk >
UCalifornia Riverside
Macroevolution Reduviidae
Graduate position: UC Riverside Macroevolution Reduviidae
The Heteropteran Systematics Lab @ UCR (http://-
heteroptera.ucr.edu/) is looking for a new PhD student
(starting fall 2017) who would be part of a research team
investigating the evolutionary history of Reduvioidea,
the assassin bugs. Candidates with strong background in
systematic entomology and phylogenetics are preferred.
Please contact christiane.weirauch@ucr.edu for more in-
formation and check UCR Entomology for details on
application procedures.
The project: an international research team led by the
Heteropteran Systematics Lab @ UCR will shed light on
the evolutionary history and diversication of a charis-
matic clade of predatory and hematophagous insects,
the speciose Reduvioidea or assassin bugs ( >6,822 de-
scribed spp.). Existing phylogenies of Reduvioidea are
inadequate to address many evolutionary questions, the
paucity of well-described fossils has made it dicult to
establish time-lines for events including the transition
from predatory to hematophagous life style, and the
classication of Reduvioidea is in disarray. We will:
1) test phylogenetic hypotheses with emphasis on the
poorly resolved Higher Reduviidae and contentious rela-
tionships of the hematophagous Chagas disease vectors
Triatominae, while maximizing taxonomic coverage and
integrating transcriptomic, anchored hybrid enrichment,
traditional molecular, and morphological datasets; 2)
describe and redescribe fossil reduvioids to bridge tax-
onomic and geological gaps in the fossil record and
test hypotheses on the timing of key biological events;
3) study diversication across Reduvioidea, focusing
on hypotheses of diversication rate shifts and corre-
lated key innovations, and morphological, physiological,
and ecological traits involved in the transition between
predation and hematophagy; 4) use the phylogenetic
information generated during this project to propose aJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 51
new classication of Reduvioidea.
Potential PhD projects: could focus on phylogenetic
and phylogenomic approaches to unravelling relation-
ships within Reduvioidea, comparative morphology and
morphological character evolution across the group, key
innovations in the evolution of hematophagy, or diversi-
cation analyses.
{ Eric Gordon Ph.D. Candidate Department of Entomol-
ogy University of California, Riverside 3401 Watkins Dr.
Riverside, CA 92521 Email: egord003@ucr.edu
Eric Gordon <egord003@ucr.edu >
UCincinnati 2
JumpingSpiderColorEvolution
Hi all,
I am recruiting two PhD students to join my research
group at the University of Cincinnati in the summer or
fall of 2017. I am particularly interested in recruiting
new students to join our research on the coevolution of
jumping spider color vision and coloration.
One available PhD position, funded through an active
NSF grant, will investigate the role of female visual
attention/gaze in driving the evolution of complex male
displays in the North American jumping spider genus
Habronattus. This research project combines inten-
sive eld work with lab-based video characterization
of male displays and eye-tracking of female gaze re-
sponses to video playback of displaying males (the latter
in collaboration with Beth Jakob at the University of
Massachusetts, Amherst).
The second doctoral position will support a new research
initiative in my group to understand the repeated evo-
lution of color vision across jumping spiders. Thus far,
we have identied two independent and functionally dis-
tinct transitions from dichromacy to tri-/tetrachromacy
in jumping spiders, which are tightly associated with
subsequent rapid diversication of male color ornamenta-
tion. We are now interested in identifying any additional
evolutionary transitions in color vision, characterizing
when and why they occurred, and investigating their
\downstream" consequences for biodiversity in this group
of animals. This work will leverage international eld
work with molecular, microspectrophotometric, and hy-
perspectral imaging approaches.
In addition to these new research initiatives, we havea number of other research projects that could provide
opportunities for incoming students. I am currently
adding more information about these on my lab web-
site: www.morehouselab.com . Students interested in
joining the lab should contact me as soon as possible
to discuss their interests and t for the lab. Please
include a brief statement of your research interests, how
they connect with our current research, and your CV,
academic transcripts, and GRE scores if available.
The University of Cincinnati is emerging as an
international center of excellence in sensory ecology.
With a strong and growing faculty concentra-
tion in Sensory Biology, Behavior, and Evolution
(http://www.artsci.uc.edu/departments/biology/-
research/Sbbe.html) and an NSF-funded REU program
in Sensory Ecology, UC provides a vibrant intellectual
environment for research and student training. Plans
are afoot for the development of a regional consortium
of sensory biologists, including researchers at Purdue
and Case Western. Matching research strengths in
sensing and sensor technologies in UC's nationally-
renowned College of Engineering oer a number of
cross-disciplinary training opportunities. In addition,
UC's strengths in design and the ne and performing
arts provide exciting opportunities for my lab's ongoing
involvement in art-science collaborations, including the
College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning
(ranked 3rd internationally) and the Cincinnati Conser-
vatory of Music (ranked 6th nationally). The University
of Cincinnati and my lab also have a strong commitment
to diversity in science and graduate education. Students
from underrepresented ethnic or racial minorities will
be considered for the new Provost Graduate Fellowship
(https://grad.uc.edu/content/dam/grad/docs/awards/-
Provost Fellow Program Description 2017.pdf), which
provides a 3 year $25,000 stipend plus tuition remis-
sion, and the Yates Fellowship, which awards grants
to underrepresented minority candidates. Finally,
Cincinnati is a culturally and economically vibrant
city with a low cost of living, oering an unbeatable
quality of life for our graduate students. Vogue
just named Cincinnati as one of the \5 industrial
cities making America's rust belt shine again":
http://www.vogue.com/13506742/rust-belt-travel-
guides-detroit-pittsburgh-chicago-cincinnati-covington-
milwaukee/ Graduate applications are due January 1,
2017. More information on the graduate program at
the University of Cincinnati and associated application
materials can be found here: http://www.artsci.uc.edu/-
departments/biology/graduate/future.html . All my
best,
Nate
Nathan Morehouse52 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Cincinnati 711H Rieveschl Hall Cincin-
nati, OH 45221-0006 Oce: (513) 556-9700 colorevolu-
tion@uc.edu http://www.morehouselab.com
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UConnecticut
SymbiontPhylogenomicsEvol
PhD student positions in phylogenomics, host-symbiont
diversication in the Simon Lab (see also our postdoc-
toral ad)
The Simon lab at the University of Connecticut seeks
creative and motivated PhD students and Postdoctoral
candidates interested in phylogenetics, molecular phy-
logenomics, bioinformatics, and/or symbiont-host inter-
actions (endosymbionts and/or microbiomes) to begin in
the summer or fall of 2017. Experience in the preceding
subjects preferred but not required.
Applicants will participate in an NSF sponsored project
entitled: Exploring Symbiont Biodiversity and Com-
plexity in the Family Cicadidae. The major goal of this
proposal is to study the co-diversication and interac-
tion between cicadas, their primary \obligate" endosym-
bionts, their secondary \facultative" endosymbionts and
their gut microbiota. Cicada obligate endosymbionts
have recently been demonstrated to exhibit spectacu-
lar and unprecedented genome diversity. Since cicada
symbionts are largely unknown our work will result in
considerable biodiversity discovery. We hypothesize that
gain or loss of host-symbiont consortium members dur-
ing cicada phylogenetic history will be correlated with
internal or external environmental changes. We are
most interested in the timing of symbiont consortium
changes. For example, does the gain of a secondary
(facultative) endosymbiont facilitate the breakdown or
loss of primary (obligate) endosymbionts? Or does the
breakdown or loss of the obligate endosymbiont allow
invasion by a secondary endosymbiont? Similarly, we
ask whether the changes in the gut microbiota aect
primary endosymbionts (keeping in mind that gut mi-
crobiota are known to synthesize essential amino acids
for some hosts). Other hypotheses concern changes insymbiont consortium membership related to changes in
the biotic or abiotic external environment coincident
with the invasion of new biogeographic areas charac-
terized by dierent climates and host plants. Broader
impacts will involve teaching collaborations with team
members in the US, Brazil, China, India, NZ, and Fiji.
Field trips to Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Fiji, and India
are planned.
Senior Personnel and collaborators on the project in-
clude: Thomas Buckley (NZ), David Marshall, John
Cooley, John McCutcheon, Emily and Alan Lemmon,
Chris Owen, Beth Wade, Al Sanborn, Dan Mozgai,
Max Moulds (AU), Ben Price (UK), Martin Villet (ZA),
Deepa Agashe (IN), Krushnamegh Kunte (IN), Sud-
hanya Hajong (IN), Cong Wei (CN), Hong He (CN),
Daniela Takiya (BR), Tatiana Ruschel (BR), and Peter
Lockhart (NZ, FJ), and numerous cicada researchers
around the world.
Interested and qualied PhD candidates should send an
email describing their motivation, skills, and research
experience/interests along with a CV, GPA, GRE and
TOEFL (if relevant) scores. Applicants should also ar-
range to have letters sent letters sent by three referees
who are familiar with the candidates work. Strong ap-
plicants will be contacted to schedule an informal Skype
interview. Applications to UCONN (early admission)
are due December 15th with rolling admission thereafter.
I recommend applying asap and prior to January 15th.
Financial support for Ph.D. students is available via
research assistantships from our NSF award, teaching as-
sistantships, and university fellowships, but applications
to outside funding sources are also strongly encouraged.
Send all material to chris.simon@uconn.edu
The successful candidates will join the EEB Department
at the University of Connecticut and also have opportu-
nities to work in the laboratories of collaborators. The
EEB department is a diverse, highly collegial and inter-
active group of scientists. Relevant to these positions,
we are particularly strong in Systematics with eight
faculty members whose major focus is phylogenetic sys-
tematics and half a dozen others who use phylogenetics
in their work. We oer three graduate courses in system-
atics (Principles and Methods of Systematics, Molecular
Systematics, and Phylogenetic Systematics) plus numer-
ous relevant grad seminars. There is a strong symbiont
group on campus that includes members of EEB and
Molecular and Cell Biology. EEB also has strengths in
phenotypic plasticity and functional morphology, global
change ecology, behavior, and organismal evolution, ecol-
ogy and conservation.
Chris Simon Professor, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
75 North Eagleville Road, University of ConnecticutJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 53
Storrs, CT 06269-3043
Brood VI is emerging in May 2017 in western North and
South Carolina. Report sightings to Magicicada.org
chris.simon@uconn.edu
Oce (860) 486-4640; Lab (860) 486-3947; Fax (860)
486-6364, Oce: Biopharm 305D, Lab: Biopharm
323,325
C. Simon Home page: http://-
hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
simon lab/member pages/c simon.php Simon Lab
Home:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen 12 Evolution
12 PhD Scholarship positions in Evolutionary Life Sci-
ences
Host organization
The University of Groningen has an international repu-
tation as a dynamic and innovative institution of higher
education, oering high-quality teaching and research.
Balanced study and career paths in a wide variety of dis-
ciplines encourage the 30,000 students and researchers
to develop their own individual talents. The University
of Groningen is proud to be among the global elite with
a classication in the top 100 of the Shanghai ARWU,
the QS World University Rankings, and the THE World
University Rankings. It marks the 24th place in the
global ranking of Best Places to Work in Academia,
scoring 3rd best in Europe and 5th non-US university.
Joining forces with prestigious partner universities and
networks, the University of Groningen is truly an inter-
national place of knowledge.
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES)
GELIFES, the largest institute of the Faculty of Math-
ematics and Natural Sciences (FMNS) lls a special
niche in the life sciences by covering and integrating
mechanistic, evolutionary and ecological approaches,
aiming to understand adaptation on all levels of bio-
logical organisation. Researchers pursue fundamentalquestions while collaborating with partners from indus-
try, medicine and other realms of society. For its new
research programme, called Adaptive Life, which is one
of the four focus themes of the FMNS, the institute
received a large university grant.
Our research elds include behavioural biology, chrono-
biology, ecology, evolutionary biology, genetics and ge-
nomics, neurobiology, physiology and theoretical mod-
elling, using a wide array of research tools. Research
levels range from molecular and organismal to pop-
ulation and community, performed under laboratory,
semi-natural and eld conditions. Studying mechanisms
within the framework of evolutionary adaptation allows
for a large diversity of model organisms, for which we
have extensive facilities. A wide array of species are
studied, from microbes, algae, plants and insects to ver-
tebrates such as sh, birds, rodents, marine mammals
and humans. We are currently searching for candidates
to ll a substantial number of open PhD positions within
our Adaptive Life programme.
PhD project description
GELIFES oers 12 four-year scholarship PhD positions
for the most talented and motivated national and inter-
national students, starting between May and Septem-
ber 2017. All PhD positions are integrative by nature,
spanning across dierent expertise groups and being
strengthened by complementary PhD projects already
in progress and in preparation.
PhD candidates are invited to approach potential su-
pervisors (PIs; 2 minimum) within GELIFES (a 3rd
supervisor may be attracted externally) with a draft
research proposal (500 words) within the scope of the
integrative topics listed below and submit their personal
les. PI teams will select three candidates at most based
on their information and research plans and invite them
to write a full research proposal. All nal proposals
will be reviewed by an external committee and ranked
according to scientic quality, feasibility as well as t to
the adaptive Life programme and integrative potential.
Only the 12 highest ranking proposals will be eligible
for funding.
Upon selection, PhD candidates will receive expert su-
pervision and mentoring, and excellent training through
cutting-edge research projects, advanced courses and
training opportunities, complemented by workshops on
generic research, transferable skills and teaching. The
home base for GELIFES' research is the new spectac-
ular Linnaeusborg at Zernike Campus. Research is
performed with state of the art equipment and in well-
equipped facilities.
As a PhD candidate, you are committed to conduct in-54 EvolDir January 1, 2017
dependent and original scientic research, to report on
this research in international publications and presenta-
tions, and to present the results of the research in a PhD
dissertation, to be completed within four years. After
thesis completion, many of GELIFES' PhD students
move on to top positions in academia or industry.
Integrative topics
PhD candidates are invited to develop their own re-
search proposal within the frame work of one of four
integrative topics of the Adaptive Life Programme
listed below, or more specically within a proposed
research theme as indicated on our Adaptive Life
vacancy website: http://www.rug.nl/research/fmns/-
themes/adaptive-life/research/vacancies 1. Causes and
consequences of consistent individual dierences
GELIFES is renowned for its research on 'animal person-
alities', i.e., systematic individual dierences in physiol-
ogy or behaviour that are stable in time and consistent
across contexts. The study of such individual dier-
ences is currently a hot topic in the animal and human
behavioural
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHalle Germany
BeeVirusCoevolution
3 year PhD on host-parasite coevolution: bumble bees
and their viruses
A PhD position is available for a newly funded project
on the evolutionary ecology of viruses in bees, funded
by iDiv (www.idiv.de) and within Robert Paxton's lab
at the University of Halle, Germany.
The overarching goal of the research is to understand
the role of viral evolutionary change for pathogen emer-
gence and host switching as well as host evolutionary
response, with a conservation focus on rare and declin-
ing species of bumble bee. Research will involve lab
and eld-based experiments (in Germany) as well as
molecular genetic analysis of viruses and their hosts.
We seek a highly motivated individual with an interest
in host-parasite coevolution and skills or a background
in bioinformatics, entomological experimentation, ormolecular genetic techniques. Two pre-requisites are a
valid driving licence and the ability or willingness to
work with bees.
The candidate will be part of iDiv's comprehensive grad-
uate school yDiv (https://www.idiv.de/ydiv.html). The
position is available for 3 years commencing April 2017
or soon thereafter. The working language of the lab is
English. The neighboring group of Robin Mortiz makes
for a strong prole in bee biology and genetics at the
University of Halle. Halle is a delightful, historical city
approximately 1.5 hours SW of Berlin and 45 minutes
from Leipzig, iDiv's seat, to which Halle is connected by
several trains per hour. The salary is on the standard
German PhD scale of 65% E13, which translates to ca.
Euro 30 K per annum.
Further details of the project can be obtained
from Robert Paxton (robert.paxton@zoologie-uni-
halle.de) and iDiv (https://www.idiv.de/the centre/-
career/expool positions.html#c4681). Applications
should be sent on-line to iDiv (apply.idiv.de) by 1 Jan-
uary 2017. Interviews are planned for early February
2017.
Robert Paxton <robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de >
UHelsinki HostPathogenCoevol
FOUR-YEAR PHD STUDENT POSITION in HOST-
PATHOGEN COEVOLUTION
Applications are invited for a four year PhD student
position in the research group of Professor Anna-Liisa
Laine. The successful applicant will join the Centre of
Excellence in Metapopulation Research at the University
of Helsinki.
The project is focused on the interplay between ecology,
genetics and evolution shaping the interaction between
host plant Plantago lanceolata and its pathogens. Host
plant P. lanceolata and its specialist fungal pathogen
Podosphaera plantaginis have been intensively studied
in the ~Aland Islands. With 16 years of epidemiological
data from over 4000 host populations and solid experi-
mental protocols, this system oers unique opportunities
for testing classic hypotheses regarding host-pathogen
co-evolution with direct links to epidemiological dynam-
ics.
In practice, you will carry out eld work in the ~Aland
Islands archipelago (SW Finland) and conduct experi-
mental work in the laboratory and under semi naturalJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 55
eld conditions. There is also potential to develop and
use genomic tools to identify genes involved in disease re-
sistance and infectivity. The work may involve extended
periods in the eld sites in ~Aland and working with
international collaborators abroad. You are expected
to present your ndings in scientic meetings and work-
shops, as well as prepare publications for international
scientic journals.
Motivated students with a MSc degree in ecology, evo-
lutionary biology or molecular biology (or other related
elds) are encouraged to apply. Prior expertise in ex-
perimental design, statistical analysis, bioinformatics or
molecular laboratory work are a bonus but your most
important assets are enthusiasm for research, motivation
to learn new things, and ability to work independently
while being an active member of a research team.
Please send your application to biotiede-mrg@helsinki.
by 22 January 2017 with title PhD COEVOLUTION.
Attach a CV (with possible publications included), a
copy of your transcript records (= printout of the courses
you've completed during your MSc), contact details of
two references (e.g. MSc thesis supervisor), and a letter
(MAX 1 page) with a description of your researcher
interests and why you would be a suitable candidate for
the project.
The work is scheduled to start in Winter/Spring 2017.
For more information, please contact Anna-Liisa Laine
(anna-liisa.laine@helsinki.) and visit the website at
http://allaine.it.helsinki./ For information on the Uni-
versity of Helsinki, please visit: http://www.helsinki./-
university/index.html Professor Anna-Liisa Laine
Center-of-Excellence in Metapopulation Biology
Department of Biosciences
PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1)
FI-00014 University of Helsinki, Finland
allaine.it.helsinki.
helsinki./science/metapop/
twitter: @annaliisalaine
\Laine, Anna-Liisa" <anna-liisa.laine@helsinki. >
UHongKong
TreeConservationGenetics
A fully funded PhD studentship is available for the study
of population genetics and conservation biology of theendangered tree Aquilaria sinensis at the University of
Hong Kong, in collaboration with Kadoorie Farm and
Botanic Garden, Hong Kong.
Aquilaria sinensis, also known as incense tree or agar-
wood tree, is one of the most famous medicinal plants in
Hong Kong and China. However, due to the rising de-
mands for agarwood, this species is threatened by illegal
felling throughout the region. To conserve and maintain
healthy incense tree populations in Hong Kong, there
is an urgent need to study the conservation genetics
of this species. We now seek a high calibre student to
(1) study the genetic diversity of Aquilaria sinensis in
Hong Kong and understand how the genetic diversity
is aected by illegal felling; (2) understand the genetic
variation of Aquilaria sinensis at dierent age classes,
and disentangle the gene ow patterns of this species.
This work will contribute to the synthesis of a Species
Action Plan and information gained from this project
will be useful for conservation and restoration of this
species in Hong Kong and throughout the region.
Prospective students with a background in conservation
biology or population genetics are encouraged to apply.
A strong academic record, evidence of excellent writing
and analytical skills, as well as enthusiasm for eld and
laboratory research will be a plus.
The PhD studentship includes a postgraduate schol-
arship, travel insurance and research support for four
years. To apply, please send application materials, in-
cluding a cover letter and copies of academic transcripts,
resume and contact information for 3 references to gs-
cher@kfbg.org or saunders@hku.hk. Review of appli-
cations will begin immediately and continue until the
position is lled.
Huarong Zhang, Ph.D.
Senior conservation geneticist
Flora conservation department
Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden
Hong Kong
hzhang@kfbg.org56 EvolDir January 1, 2017
UKonstanz 15 Adaptation
The Research Training Group \R3 - Responses to biotic
and abiotic changes, Resilience and Reversi-bility of lake
ecosystems" funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft (DFG) and based at the University of Konstanz
welcomes applications for up to 15 PhD Positions (Salary
Scale 13 TV-L / 65 % - 75 %) for a three-year structured
program. The RTG will start on 1 April 2017.
The scientic goal of this RTG is to study the mechanism
resulting in the resilience of lake ecosystems to environ-
mental change. Our approach is to study the response
of a model system - Lake Constance - with a multi-
tude of dierent approaches and from dierent view-
points, i.e., combining classical and novel methods such
as population genomics and metagenomics approaches,
metabolic proling, compound-specic stable-isotope
analyses, comparative multi-species experiments, paleo-
limnological and resurrection ecology approaches, time-
series analyses, and numerical simulation models. The
RTG will use these methods to study lake responses in
three tightly linked research areas: Response, resilience
and reversibility of ecosystem structure, Response, re-
silience and reversibility of biotic interactions Response,
resilience and reversibility of carbon and nutrient ows
We oer a structured doctoral qualication programme
combining a mentoring program, specic lectures on
research and applied questions in ecology and limnology,
a seminar and visiting program among students, exible
one-week courses, transferable skills courses, visits by
guest researchers, and annual retreats. Furthermore you
can expect a highly stimulating research environment.
Further information about the Doctoral positions, and
the scientists involved can be found at: http://www.rtg-
resilience.uni-konstanz.de .
The University of Konstanz encourages disabled persons
to apply. They will be given preference if appropriately
qualied (contact + 49 7531 / 88 - 4016 und 88 - 2834).
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer that tries to increase the number of women in
research and teaching.
The University of Konstanz has been certied as a
family-friendly institution by the Hertie Foundation
and is committed to further the compatibility of work
and family life.The University of Konstanz oers a \Dual Career Cou-
ples Program". Information can be obtained from:
http://www.uni-konstanz.de/dcc .
Requirements: Excellent Master (or equivalent) in ecol-
ogy, biology, physics, biology, microbiology, bioinformat-
ics, mathematics depending on RTG project. We expect
strong motivation, good communication skills and the
ability for teamwork.
For application, please submit: - motivation letter, in-
cluding interests, motivation to become part of the RTG,
ranking of 3 preferred projects, specic qualications
for chosen projects, - curriculum vitae including degree
certicates, - abstract of master thesis, - two letters of
recommendation. Interested candidates should submit
their application containing the above mentioned doc-
uments including reference number 2016 / 254 in one
PDF le to the speaker of the RTG, Prof. Dr. Frank
Peeters, RTG resilience joboers@uni-konstanz.de .
Review of the applications will begin on 9 January 2017
and will continue until the positions have been lled.
Selection of invited applicants will be done at a two-
day workshop in the 2nd half of February 2017 at the
University of Konstanz.
Mark van Kleunen <mark.vankleunen@uni-
konstanz.de >
ULausanne BacterialCommunities
I am looking to recruit a motivated and curious PhD
student to work on building mathematical and com-
putational models of evolving multi-species bacterial
communities at the Department of Fundamental Micro-
biology in the beautiful city of Lausanne in Switzerland.
The position is fully funded with a generous salary, and
can start any time after May, 2017 (exceptions can be
made to start earlier).
The successful candidate will work within a multidisci-
plinary group to construct models that capture inter-
actions between ve bacterial species. These models
will then be t to data observed in the lab, and used
to make predictions that can later be validated again
in the laboratory. The work will include dynamical sys-
tems (dierential equations), individual-based models,
and possibly control theory. A background in any of
these areas is not required but will be appreciated. A
passion for the subject, programming skills and a good
command of written and spoken English are required.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 57
For more information on the type of work we do in the
lab, please visit our website: unil.ch/mitrilab. Please
send questions and applications (including a one-page
motivation letter with your research interests, a CV and
evidence of a Master's degree) to sara.mitri[at]unil.ch.
\sara.mitri@unil.ch" <sara.mitri@unil.ch >
ULeicester 3 GeneticEpidemiology
Deadline for application is approaching for three PhD
positions in Genetic Epidemiology at University of Le-
icester.
1. MRC IMPACT studentship (3.5 years): Idiopathic
Pulmonary Fibrosis: novel insights into the genetic basis
of risk and survival times (Theme: Precision Medicine:
Pathology to Population Health). MRC IMPACT stu-
dentships are for 3.5 years which includes an initial 13
week Cohort Training Programme with the PhD project
commencing in January 2018.
For more information, please contact Louise
Wain (louisewain@le.ac.uk) and visit http://-
www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/mds-graduate-school/-
scholarships/mrc-impact/index.aspx (then click on
\Precision Medicine: Pathology to Population Health")
to apply. Deadline for applications is 16th January
2017! [Note the requirement for 2 referee statements].
Idiopathic pulmonary brosis: novel insights into the
genetic basis of risk and survival times
Supervisor: Dr Louise Wain (University of Leicester)
and Professor Gisli Jenkins (University of Nottingham)
Summary: Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a
rare, chronic and progressive lung disease with a very
poor prognosis (median survival 3 years) and limited
treatment options and there is a need for new therapy
and approaches to treatment. The primary aim of this
project will be to discover novel genetic determinants
of IPF risk and survival. These will further our un-
derstanding of the disease processes involved in IPF
by identifying genes and pathways involved, and could
lead to the development of new IPF drugs. In addition,
inclusion of genetic predictors of risk and survival time
in clinical prediction models could improve clinical care
by facilitating approaches to stratify disease (\preci-
sion medicine"). The student will be based within an
internationally-recognised respiratory genetic epidemi-
ology group with close collaborations with leading IPF
clinicians and researchers. A broad training in geneticepidemiology will equip the student for a career in the
fast-moving and opportunity-rich eld of human dis-
ease genetics. Applicants should have a background in
bioinformatics, epidemiology, statistics or genetics (or
similar) with an aptitude for computing (prior experi-
ence of programming is advantageous but not essential)
and a keen interest in genetics and human disease.
2. Department funded studentship (3 years): The role
of complex genetic variation of immune system genes in
respiratory health and disease. Supervised by Dr Louise
Wain and Dr Ed Hollox (Department of Genetics) The
studentship is for 3 years and will commence in October
2017. The student will be based in the Department of
Health Sciences.
Respiratory disease is major public health concern and
the third leading cause of death globally. Genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) have identied multiple re-
gions of the genome associated with respiratory health
and disease and amongst these, one of the strongest sig-
nals of association is in the Human Leukocyte Antigen
(HLA) region gene cluster on chromosome 6 which en-
codes proteins with essential roles in the immune system.
However, the HLA region is complex and understand-
ing the mechanisms underlying the genetic signals of
association in this region requires sophisticated ana-
lytical approaches. Bespoke computational methods
which measure variation of the HLA region, and of
other clusters of functionally-related genes, at both the
genetic and protein level, have been developed. This
project will involve applying these methods to large
general population cohorts to explore both the direct
and interactive eects of variation at immune gene clus-
ters on respiratory traits and disease. The student will
develop research skills at the interface of genetics, statis-
tics and computer science which will equip them for a
career in the exciting and fast-moving eld of genetic
epidemiology. A background in bioinformatics, genetics
or statistics is preferred and a keen interest in develop-
ing further skills in all of those areas, and in the use
of high performance computing to analyse very large
data sets, is essential. Contact Louise Wain (louise-
wain@leicester.ac.uk) for further details. The deadline
for applications for this studentship are likely to close
~9th January 2017. The advert, and details of how to
apply, will become available shortly.
3. MRC IMPACT studentship (3.5 years): Towards pre-
cision medicine in primary care: genetic epidemiology
of treatment failure in primary care (Theme: Precision
Medicine: Pathology to Population Health). MRC IM-
PACT studentships are for 3.5 years which includes an
initial 13 week Cohort Training Programme with the
PhD project commencing in January 2018. Supervised
by Professor Martin Tobin and Dr Louise Wain.58 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Many prescribed drugs lack ecacy or generate adverse
eects. Central
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULeicester KinshipDeductionForen-
sicsGenealogy
Fully-funded BBSRC-iCASE PhD Project: Next-
generation kinship deduction for forensic and genealogi-
cal analysis
University of registration: University of Leicester
Project supervisors: Professor Nuala Sheehan (Depart-
ment of Health Sciences) & Professor Mark Jobling
(Department of Genetics)
Non-Academic partner: Dr Martin Blythe - DNA World-
wide Group
Project outline:
The use of DNA analysis to determine familial relation-
ships between human individuals is very well established.
For close (rst-degree) pairwise relationships as targeted
in the paternity test, a small number of polymorphic
markers (the short-tandem repeats [STRs] also used
in forensic individual identication) is analysed, and
probabilities of true paternity can be established with
near certainty. However, there is also a need in some
applications to estimate more distant kin relationships:
in forensic casework 'familial searching' exploits the fact
that a perpetrator and their relative(s) are expected
to share 'similar' DNA proles, which can provide in-
vestigative information when the relative(s) are in the
National DNA Database but the perpetrator is not;
in immigration cases a claim of relationship may need
to be validated in order to allow entry; in genealogi-
cal research participants may have specic hypotheses
about their relationships which they wish to support
via DNA evidence. The kinship estimation problem
is more dicult in these cases because with each ad-
ditional generation that separates two individuals, the
expected proportion of the genome shared identical by
descent (IBD) halves. Additional power can be gained
by increasing the number of DNA markers analysed, for
example by using genome-wide SNP chips.The project proposed here addresses these issues by
exploring the potential of NGS forensic multiplexes and
genome-wide SNP data in relationship estimation, us-
ing real-world data. Forensically-relevant data will be
generated by typing either the Promega Powerseq or
Illumina Forenseq multiplex on existing pedigree DNA
collections. Anonymised genome-wide SNP data will be
obtained from DNA Worldwide (consenting clients, and
a dataset of 72 individuals from 9 pedigrees). Both
the forensic multiplexes and the genome-wide data
(based on the HumanOmniExpressExome-8 chip) in-
clude uniparentally-inherited markers (Y chromosome,
mitochondrial DNA) as well as biparentally-inherited
(autosomal) markers. A novel feature of this project is
to investigate ecient incorporation of such data with
SNP-based likelihood estimates by considering haplo-
type frequencies and possible pedigree structures includ-
ing sex. A key issue will be to understand the sensitivity
of relationship estimation to allele frequencies, and a
number of approaches will be taken, including the use of
internal frequencies from the data themselves, data from
public resources such as HapMap, or our own datasets.
Detailed sensitivity analyses will be carried out through
extensive simulation studies.
In this industrially-sponsored iCASE project, the stu-
dent will spend a total of at least 3 months during the
PhD working at DNA Worldwide, in Frome, Somer-
set. Training will be given in the bioinformatic analysis
pipelines and databasing used to process, categorize
and manage the multitude of data generated through
consumer genotyping, and in essential business skills
involving public presentation, listening and communica-
tion, organisation, project management, marketing and
nances.
Closing date for applications: 8th January 2017
For informal enquiries contact the supervisors: Nuala
Sheehan <nas11@leicester.ac.uk >and Mark Jobling
<maj4@le.ac.uk >
Find more information here: http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
colleges/medbiopsych/research/pg-research/mitbp-at-
the-university-of-leicester Check eligibilty and apply
here: https://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross fac/-
mibtp/pgstudy/phd opportunities/application/ Please
note: iCASE students must full the MIBTP entry
requirements and will join the MIBTP cohort for the
taught modules and masterclasses during the rst term.
iCASE students can then start their PhD project in
Jan 2018 but must complete a 3-month miniproject
(at a non-home institution) before the end of their
rst year. They will remain as an integral part of the
MIBTP cohort and take part in the core networking
activities and transferable skills training.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 59
\maj4@leicester.ac.uk" <maj4@leicester.ac.uk >
ULeicester SexSelection
Sex, selection and dierential gene expression: do
changes in the mode of sexual reproduction inuence
the magnitude and extent of sex-biased gene expression?
Competition funded PhD studentship at the University
of Leicester (UK) in collaboration with Africa Gomez
at the University of Hull (UK)
For more details: rh225@le.ac.uk
Females and males have almost identical genomes but
are exposed to conicting selective pressures. It is hy-
pothesised that these conicting selective pressures -
known as sexually antagonistic selection - are the expla-
nation for multiple independent evolutions of sex-biased
gene expression and also sex chromosomes [1]. However,
empirically testing the role of sexually antagonistic se-
lection has been hampered by the lack of suitable experi-
mental systems as sex dierences are often longstanding
[2].
Using a model system we have developed [3-5] - the tad-
pole shrimp, Triops sp. - this project will test whether
changes in the mode of sexual reproduction inuences
the magnitude and extent of sex-biased gene expression.
We have shown that tadpole shrimps (Triops) show
multiple transitions between separate sexes (dioecy)
and individuals with male and female function
(hermaphrodites) [3, 6]. Importantly such changes alter
the strength of sexually antagonistic selection [7]. We
therefore have a system where sexually antagonistic se-
lection diers so its role on sex-biased gene expression
to be tested. Furthermore, we have shown that sex
is genetic in Triops cancriformis and that sex chromo-
some regions are larger in dioecious populations than in
hermaphrodite populations, a pattern consistent with a
reduction in sexually antagonistic selection [5].
This PhD will investigate two species where
hermaphroditism has evolved independently and there
are both dioecious and hermaphrodite populations (Tri-
ops cancriformis and Triops longicaudatus).
The student will test whether: - genes with female bi-
ased expression in dioecious populations are less biased
in hermaphrodites - genes with male biased expression
in dioecious populations less biased in hermaphrodites -
There is an eect of genome position (e.g. within or out-side the sex chromosome region) of genes on the degree
of change in expression bias. - There are convergent
patterns of change in Triops cancriformis and Triops
longicaudatus.
Objectives: 1. To develop sex-specic genetic markers
for identication of males, females and hermaphrodites
in T. cancriformis / longicaudatus. 2. To identify genes
located within the sex specic region of males, females
and hermaphrodites in T. cancriformis / longicaudatus.
3. To test for a reduction in the dierential expression
of sex- associated genes in the transition from dioecy to
hermaphroditism in T. cancriformis / longicaudatus
The student will be based in the Department of Ge-
netics at the University of Leicester and supervised by
Rob Hammond (https://goo.gl/fhTYcg) in Leicester in
collaboration with Africa Gomez and the University of
Hull (https://goo.gl/Hfqgpn) and with Eamonn Mal-
lon (https://goo.gl/oqoTgc) as the second supervisor in
Leicester.
1. Vicoso B., Kaiser V.B., Bachtrog D. 2013 Sex-biased
gene expression at homomorphic sex chromosomes in
emus and its implication for sex chromosome evolu-
tion. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
110(16), 6453-6458. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1217027110). 2.
Wright A.E., Dean R., Zimmer F., Mank J.E. 2016
How to make a sex chromosome. Nat Commun 7.
(doi:10.1038/ncomms12087). 3. Mathers T., Ham-
mond R., Jenner R., Zierold T., Haning B., Gomez
A. 2013 High lability of sexual system over 250 mil-
lion years of evolution in morphologically conservative
tadpole shrimps. BMC Evol Biol 13(1), 30. 4. Math-
ers T.C., Hammond R.L., Jenner R.A., Haening B.,
Gomez A. 2013 Multiple global radiations in tadpole
shrimps challenge the concept of 'living fossils'. PeerJ
1. (doi:10.7717/peerj.62). 5. Mathers T.C., Hammond
R.L., Jenner R.A., Haning B., Atkins J., Gomez A.
2015 Transition in sexual system and sex chromosome
evolution in the tadpole shrimp Triops cancriformis.
Heredity 115(1), 37-46. (doi:10.1038/hdy.2015.10). 6.
Zierold T., Haning B., Gomez A. 2007 Recent evolution
of alternative reproductive modes in the 'living fossil' Tri-
ops cancriformis. BMC Evol Biol 7. (doi:10.1186/1471-
2148-7-161). 7. Bedhomme S., Bernasconi G., Koene
J.M., Lankinen A., Arathi H.S., Michiels N.K., Anthes
N. 2009 How does breeding system variation modu-
late sexual antagonism? Biology Letters 5(5), 717- 720.
(doi:10.1098/rsbl.2009.0401). 8. Harrison M.C., Ham-
mond R.L., Mallon E.B. 2015 Reproductive
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-60 EvolDir January 1, 2017
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULeicester
WildlifeConservationSequencing
A 4 year iCASE PhD studentship, fully funded for UK /
EU students, is available at the University of Leicester,
UK , in conjunction with Oxford Nanopore Technologies
(ONT, UK) as part of the BBSRC Midlands Integrative
Biosciences Training Partnership (MIBTP).
Subject: Nanopore DNA sequencing in forensics:
wildlife crime and conservation
Supervisors: Dr Celia A May, Prof Mark A Jobling, Dr
Jon H Wetton, MCSFS (University of Leicester) and
Zoe McDougall (ONT, UK).
Informal enquiries to primary supervisor Dr Celia May
(cam5@le.ac.uk).
Full details of the iCASE MIBTP programme, and how
to apply can be found at the MIBTP website:
http://www2.le.ac.uk/colleges/medbiopsych/-
research/Postgraduate%20Opportunities/mitbp-at-the-
university-of-leicester/icase Application Deadline: 8
January 2017 Interviews: 26 January 2017 Start Date:
25 September 2017
Project Description:
Nanopore sequencing has the potential to free DNA anal-
ysis from the specialist laboratory and enable tests to
be performed at an aordable price when and where re-
quired. Hand portable third generation DNA sequencers
such as the MinION developed by the industrial sponsor
Oxford Nanopore Technologies are intended to make se-
quencing a commonplace activity by simplifying and au-
tomating as much of the process as possible with dispos-
able microuidic units ultimately performing the stages
manually performed by laboratory personnel. ^ a eWe
wish to explore the capabilities of nanopore sequencing
for capacity building in countries that lack easy access to
DNA analysis centres. A primary need for both the con-
servation geneticist and the wildlife protection agencies
is the ability to analyse mitochondrial DNA which en-
compasses not only the highly conserved barcode genes,
which vary characteristically between species allowing
condent assignment to a taxonomic group, but also the
hypervariable DNA regions. The latter can be used to
discriminate between dierent maternal lineages withina population as a result of their very high mutation
rate, whilst other regions of the mitochondrial genome
with intermediate mutation rates oer information at
the sub-specic and population level. ^ a e
see also FindaPhD.com entry: https://-
www.ndaphd.com/search/phd.aspx?keywords=-
Celia%20May Eligibility requirements: ^ a e
1st or a 2.1 degree in a relevant eld (a 2.2 plus Master's
degree or 3+ years relevant post-graduate experience
may be eligible). ^ a eEvidence of quantitative training
(AS or A level Maths, IB Standard or Higher Maths,
or University maths/statistics course). Please note that
EU applicants that have not been resident in the UK for
the past 3 years will only be eligible for bench fees and
the training grant, but not the stipend as stipulated by
Research Council UK policy.
\May, Celia A. (Dr.)" <cam5@leicester.ac.uk >
ULinnaeus Sweden
EvolutionaryEcolLepidoptera
PhD position: Ecology with emphasis in evolutionary
ecology of butteries and moths
The doctorate student will work within the research
project 'Evolutionary ecology of butteries and moths'.
The aim of the project is to investigate the causes and
consequences of genetic and phenotypic variation, using
butteries and moths as model systems. Part of the
research will be conducted in within the framework of an
ongoing project regarding the ecological consequences
for populations and species of variation in functionally
important traits, such as life-history characteristics and
color patterns. For this, we have at our disposal ecologi-
cal data for a large number of moth species that can be
used for comparative analyses to evaluate hypotheses
and test predictions. The research will also include initi-
ating a new project. Field studies and laboratory work
will be used to collect information on the distribution,
dynamics, genetic structure and composition of natural
(meta-) populations of selected moths and butteries,
likely on the island of ~Aland. Data will be used to
investigate how environmental heterogeneity impact on
ecological and evolutionary processes and shape patterns
of population-level diversity, and how population-level
diversity in turn may feed-back on ecological and evo-
lutionary processes. The successful applicant will be
part of EEMiS, a multidisciplinary center of excellenceJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 61
within Linnaeus University.
Linnaeus University was established when Kalmar Uni-
versity and V axj o University merged. The Department
of Biology and Environmental Science is part of the Fac-
ulty of Health and Life Sciences. The research activities
within the Department of Biology and Environmental
Science include the areas of aquatic ecology, cell and
organism biology, evolutionary biology, microbiology,
environmental science and environmental engineering
as well as zoonotic ecology. For more information see:
www.Lnu.se The PhD studies are limited to 4 years
(100%) but may be extended to 5 years through teaching
at the undergraduate level. Successful completion of the
post-graduate studies will lead to a PhD in Ecology with
emphasis in evolutionary ecology. The position is lo-
cated in Kalmar, Sweden and will start from 1 February,
2017, or as soon as possible thereafter.
Closing date for application is January 26th, 2017.
Applications through https://lnu.se/en/meet-linnaeus-
university/work-at-the-university/. Mark your applica-
tion with reference number 2016/7072-2.2.1.
Further information: https://lnu.se/en/meet-
linnaeus-university/work-at-the-university/?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=2480&rmlang=UK Contacts: Project
leader and principal supervisor: Professor Anders
Forsman (anders.forsman@lnu.se), +46-(0)480-
446173 Head of department: Per-Eric Betzholtz
(per-eric.betzholtz@lnu.se), +46-(0)480-446238 Hu-
man resources consultant: Christian Andersson
(christian.andersson@lnu.se >), +46-(0)470-448506
Union representatives may be contacted via the
university switchboard at +46-772-288000
{ Dr. Martin Wiemers Department of Community Ecol-
ogy Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research -
UFZ Theodor-Lieser-Str. 4 06120 Halle Germany Tel.
+49 345 558-5322 e-mail: martin.wiemers@ufz.de http:/-
/www.ufz.de/index.php?en=31235 private: Wielandstr.
8 06114 Halle Germany Tel. +49 345 27950187 Mo-
bile +49 157 85401271 Fax +49 3212 6968883 e-mail:
mwiemers@web.de
Martin Wiemers <martin.wiemers@ufz.de >
UManchester BirdSongEvolution
PhD Position: Understanding and controlling the evo-
lution of reproductive behaviour during ex situ conser-
vationMain supervisor: Tucker Gilman (https://-
manchesterbehaviouralevolution.wordpress.com/-
people/) University of Manchester
Human appropriation of land and resources is reducing
the habitat available to non-human species. As a re-
sult, many species are now being conserved ex situ. In
such cases, natural phenotypes and diversity must be
maintained in captive populations to allow for potential
rewilding in the future. Much attention has been paid to
the conservation of genotypes and genetic diversity, but
heritable behaviours can also evolve in captivity, and
the conservation of behaviours has received relatively
little attention.
Birdsong is one behaviour that can evolve in captiv-
ity. For example, the Bengalese nch is a domesticated
variant of the white-rumped munia, and during domesti-
cation its song has become more complex than that of its
wild ancestor. Because of its role in mate recognition,
birdsong is of particular importance to conservation
practitioners. If the songs of captive and wild popula-
tions diverge until the animals cannot recognise each
other as mates, it may be impossible to supplement wild
populations with releases from captivity. In addition,
if songs diverge among captive populations, it may be
dicult to maintain genetic diversity by transferring
animals among ex situ conservation facilities.
The Java sparrow is a congener of the Bengalese nch
and is a species of conservation concern. A formal ex-situ
conservation programme for the species is being devel-
oped. Despite its close relationship to the Bengalese
nch, nothing is known about how captivity aects the
song of the Java sparrow. Thus, population managers
do not know whether they should be concerned about
song conservation in this species. Moreover, if song con-
servation is important, practitioners lack evidence-based
tools for achieving it.
In this project, we aim to i) understand how and why
Bengalese nch song has evolved in captivity, ii) assess
whether Java sparrow song is also aected by captivity,
and iii) evaluate strategies for maintaining wild-type
birdsong in captive populations. The student will:
1. Use molecular approaches to reconstruct the popula-
tion history of the Bengalese nch in captivity. This will
help us to understand when and how Benaglese nch
song diverged from that of its wild ancestor.
2. Assess whether song has diverged among Bengalese
nch populations in North America, Europe, and Asia.
This will help us to understand whether songs have
evolved due to drift, or whether similar selective pres-
sures drive song evolution in dierent captive popula-
tions.62 EvolDir January 1, 2017
3. Use mate choice trials to determine whether diver-
gence among Bengalese nch populations, and between
Bengalese nch and white-rumped munia populations,
is sucient to inhibit mating and inuence gene ow.
4. Assess whether song has diverged among native, cap-
tive, and introduced populations of Java sparrows. If
divergence has occurred, assess whether this is sucient
to inhibit gene ow between populations.
5. Design and assess husbandry practices to slow or re-
verse song divergence in captive populations of estrildid
nches.
The student in this project will receive training in mod-
ern molecular genetic approaches for analysing popula-
tion history (e.g., whole mtDNA sequencing or haplo-
type sharing), statistical approaches for assessing sim-
ilarity and divergence between birdsongs, mate choice
trials and behavioural assays, and birdsong recording in
the eld and in the lab.
The project will be a CASE partnership with Chester
Zoo. The supervisory team will include Tucker Gilman
and Susanne Shutlz (University of Manchester), Leah
Williams (Chester Zoo), and Jakob Bro-Jorgenson (Uni-
versity of Liverpool). For more information, email
tucker.gilman@manchester.ac.uk. Apply at http://-
tinyurl.com/java-sparrow-phd by 18 January 2017.
\tucker.gilman@manchester.ac.uk"
<tucker.gilman@manchester.ac.uk >
UmeaU FishSpeciation
PhD position in Ecology with a focus on ecological
speciation and invasion history of freshwater sh
We are looking for a PhD student for studies of specia-
tion and colonization history of freshwater sh, using
ancient DNA in lake sediments. Last date of application:
2017-01-15. Project start: early 2017
Project description
The recent discovery that extracellular DNA can be
detected in ancient lake sediments extends the time
window through which we can observe evolution and
community change from a few decades to more than
10 000 years. In this project we will use this novel
tool to study ecological speciation and the colonization
and extinction dynamics of sh in Scandinavian lakes.
The project is nanced by Biodiversa, Oskar and Lili
Lamm's stiftelse and Umea University.Admission requirements
For this position, we are seeking a candidate with rel-
evant academic background in ecology, evolutionary
biology, physical geography or similar subjects. Strong
merits are knowledge of sh biology, speciation, sed-
imentology, and relevant molecular techniques. The
successful applicant should have good ability to write
and speak in English, be creative, take initiatives, be in-
dependent and collaborative. Evaluations will be based
on the individual letter, results from university courses,
quality of master's thesis and other publications, ref-
erences, the interview, and, possibly, the candidate's
performance in a writing test given after the interview.
Application The application should include:
- a short letter (max 2 pages) describing your research
interests and why you are interested in the position
- CV, including academic achievments
- Digital copies of Bachelor/Master thesis
- Scientic publications, certicates from higher edu-
cation and other documentation that supports your
application
- Contact information to three reference persons.
Your application must be registered in Umea Univer-
sity's e-recruitment system MyNetwork Pro (at http:/-
/www.umu.se/om-universitetet/lediga-jobb/) no later
than January 15th 2016.
Starting date: By agreement
Further information: please contact Professor Goran
Englund, who will act as PhD supervisor, +46-
(0)70 245 1038, goran.englund@umu.se, or assis-
tant supervisor Xiao-Ru Wang, xiao-ru.wang@umu.se,
Rich Bindler, rich.bindler@umu.se, Folmer Bokma,
folmer.bokma@umu.se.
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Sci-
ence (EMG) at Umea University conducts research
and oers postgraduate studies in Ecology, Envi-
ronmental Sciences and Physical Geography. The
department has about 160 employees, including
about 30 PhD-students (for further information,
see http://www.emg.umu.se/english/?languageId=1 .
Link to ad: http://www.umu.se/english/about-
umu/open-positions?languageId=1 G oran Englund
<goran.englund@umu.se >January 1, 2017 EvolDir 63
UMuenster 12
EvolutionaryAdaptation
12 PhD positions in the Research Training Group
\Evolutionary Processes in Adaptation and Disease"
(EvoPAD): PhD projects in Biology, Medicine, and
Philosophy
Start: 1st April 2017. 3-year positions (TV-L E13 65
%).
The new DFG-funded Research Training Group \Evolu-
tionary Processes in Adaptation and Disease" (EvoPAD,
GRK 2220) unites biological, medical, and philosophical
research at the University of Munster, Germany. The
core idea is to use the theory of evolution to understand
processes leading to adaptation and/or disease. 12 PhD
students will work on advancing evolutionary theory,
and in turn, apply modern evolutionary approaches to
medical questions. EvoPAD doctoral researchers will
perform cutting-edge research in an interdisciplinary en-
vironment. Our multidisciplinary qualication program
is tailored to individual career tracks, and oers oppor-
tunities for international cooperation, summer schools,
and courses covering evolutionary and population genet-
ics, bioinformatics, experimental design, philosophy of
science, and bioethics.
EvoPAD is coordinated within the stimulating city of
Munster near Munster's University Palace and oers a
family friendly and international atmosphere.
For project descriptions please visit: www.uni-
muenster.de/EvoPAD/application Requirements
- Outstanding Master's or equivalent degree in Biology,
Biomedicine, Bioinformatics, Biotechnology, Philosophy
or related elds.
- Proven qualications with particular relevance to
EvoPAD (e.g., research experience in modern genomics
or emerging infectious diseases).
- Capacity to formulate and solve research problems and
eectively interpret research results.
- Willingness to interact with colleagues in an interdisci-
plinary setting.
- Motivation to manage a PhD project and to participate
in our multidisciplinary qualication program.
- Fluency in written and spoken English.
How to applyThe application should include:
- CV including information about former academic edu-
cation and degrees, professional experience, publications,
fellowships/awards, conference contributions, languages,
and further relevant skills and abilities.
- Cover letter stating the candidate's expectation from
EvoPAD and motivation to join the project.
- Master's thesis abstract.
- Two letters of recommendation from former supervi-
sors.
Applications from women are particularly encouraged.
Disabled candidates with equivalent qualications will
be preferentially considered.
Applications should be sent by e-mail as one PDF le
(max. 5 MB) to the EvoPAD Coordinator Dr. Vanessa
Kloke (evopad@uni-muenster.de) by January 8th, 2017.
Please indicate in the cover letter the project that you
would like to apply for and also give a second choice (if
wanted).
Shortlisted candidates will be interviewed by Skype be-
tween 17th - 20th January 2017. The most promising
candidates will then be invited to Munster to take part
in an admissions workshop on 2nd & 3rd February 2017
(travel costs and accommodation will be reimbursed).
|
Dr. Vanessa Kloke
Coordinator of the Munster Graduate School of Evolu-
tion
Westfalische Wilhelms-Universitat Munster
Huerstr. 1a, D-48149 Munster, Germany
Phone: +49 251 83-21252
E-Mail: mgse@uni-muenster.de
Website: http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
mgse/ \Vanessa Kloke, MGSE" <mgse@uni-
muenster.de >64 EvolDir January 1, 2017
UMuenster ExperimentalEvolution-
PlasticityImmunePriming
Graduate position: UMuen-
ster.ExperimentalEvolutionPlasticityImmunePriming
We invite applications for a PhD position in the
group of Animal Evolutionary Ecology at the Insti-
tute for Evolution and Biodiversity, University of
Muenster, Germany (http://www.uni-muenster.de/-
Evolution/animalevolecol/).
We are seeking a highly motivated student, ideally with
a background in evolutionary ecology. The successful
candidate needs to have a Master or Diploma in Biology
or related subjects. Experience with molecular or micro-
biological techniques is advantageous but not required.
The successful candidate will work in the elds of ex-
perimental evolution and ecological immunology. The
project aims at elucidating conditions for rapid adap-
tation by investigating a prime example of phenotypic
plasticity, the invertebrate immune memory (i.e. 'prim-
ing'). This topic will be addressed with serial passage
experiments of the entomopathogen Bacillus thuringien-
sis in the red our beetle Tribolium castaneum and
with experiments that focus on host experimental evolu-
tion in relation to immunological plasticity. In addition
to these long-term experiments, and depending on the
experience and interest of the candidate, analyses of
transcriptomic data sets and/or further lab experiments
on immune pr iming can be included.
Working language of the lab is English. PhD students
can become member of the Muenster Graduate School
of Evolution (MGSE, http://www.uni-muenster.de/-
Evolution/mgse/). With its large university and vibrant
city centre, Muenster is known as one of the most livable
cities in Germany (see http://www.muenster.de/en/ and
http://www.uni-muenster.de/en/ for further details).
The position is available for 3-years, starting March
1st, 2017. The salary will be 65% of a E13 TV-
L position of the German tari for public employ-
ees. The University of Muenster is an equal op-
portunity employer and is committed to increasing
the proportion of women academics. We also wel-
come applications from candidates with severe disabil-
ities. A German version of the job description can
be found at https://www.uni-muenster.de/Rektorat/-
Stellen/ausschreibungen/st 20152509 sk15.html . In-terested candidates should send applications via email
(please use the keyword 'rapid evolution' as the subject)
as a single pdf (max. 5 MB) that is named with the fam-
ily name of the applicant. The pdf should contain a CV,
a list of publications (if available), a short statement
of research interests and the addresses of two potential
referees. Please send your application to:
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de
Closing date is December 30th, 2016.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Biodi-
versity Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueerstr.
1, 48149 Muenster, Germany
Phone (secretary): + 49 251 83 21638 / 21027
Phone (direct): + 49 251 83 24661 Fax: +
49 251 83 24668 Room: 109 joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
animalevolecol/kurtz.shtml DFG SPP Host-Parasite
Coevolution M unster Graduate School of Evolution
(MGSE)
\joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de" <joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de >
UNamur Belgium EvolutionRotifers
*A PhD position is available to study extreme stress
responses inthe notorious bdelloid rotifers, UNamur,
Belgium*
A PhD position is available immediately to start work-
ing on the oxidative stress responses of bdelloid rotifers
following desiccation and radiation within the group of
Prof. Karine Van Doninck (Laboratory of Evolutionary
Genetics and Ecology) and Dr. Florence Chainiaux at
the University of Namur (Belgium).
While several metazoan asexual lineages exist, the most
notorious and successful clade is the bdelloid rotifers
containing at least 460 morphospecies that seems to
have evolved for tens of millions of years without sexual
reproduction (including fertilization and meiosis with
pairing of homologous chromosomes). Besidestheir asex-
ual mode of reproduction, they are also well-known for
their extreme desiccation and radiation resistance. En-
tering a desiccated state is however harmful in most
animals and is expected to be accompaniedby the gener-
ation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), known to induceJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 65
damages at the DNA, protein and lipid level if not neu-
tralized by antioxidants. This PhD project will study
and characterize in detail the oxidative stress generated
during desiccation and radiation in the model bdelloid
species Adineta vaga and investigate their antioxidant
responses. Being funded by the European Space Agency,
this Phd will also investigate the impact of simulated mi-
cro gravity on oxidative stress responses and be involved
in space mission preparation.
This PhD position is for 1 year and can start as soon
as February 1 ^st 2017, being funded by two projects,
ESA (European Space Agency) and ARC (Actions de
Recherche Concertees). An extension of another 3 years
ispossible but the candidate will be encouraged to apply
for its own FRIA orFNRS Belgian PhD grant.
Prof. Karine Van Doninck recently acquired an ERC
Consolidator Grant to study the mechanisms of genome
evolutionin the absence of meiosis in bdelloid rotifers;
this ERC CoG will start in 2017. This PhD will join a
very dynamic research lab including nowadays 5 post-
docs, 2 PhD students and 3 technicians at UNamur.
We employ interdisciplinary approaches (cellular and
molecular biology, comparative genomics, bioinformatics
and community level) to study evolutionary processes
in the absence of sex andthe mechanisms of extreme
resistances. Our team obtained the rst draft genome
of the bdelloid rotifer A. vaga (Flot etal2013 Nature),
we have optimized desiccation and radiation protocols
(Hespeels etal2014 JEB) and recently we discovered
horizontal gene transfer between A. vaga individuals
sampled in the wild (Debortoli etal2016 Current Bi-
ology). Our laboratory works in close collaboration
with Dr. F. Chainiaux at UNamur, studying ageing
and oxidative stress in human, with Prof. S. Lucas at
LARN (UNamur)for the radiation experiments, with
Prof. B. Hallet at UCL (Belgium) specialized in DNA
repair studies and with Dr. S. Baatout of the SCK-CEN
radiobiology unit (Mol, Belgium) for the microgravity
experiments.
Contacts: For more information contact Prof. Karine
Van Doninck, karine.vandoninck@unamur.be or Dr.
Boris Hespeels, boris.hespeels@unamur.be from the Uni-
versity of Namur, Laboratory of Evolutionary Genet-
ics and Ecology http://www.lege-unamur.be Applica-
tion: Applicants should have a Msc degree in Biology or
Molecular Life Sciences or Medical Biology with a spe-
cialization in molecular biology, evolutionary genetics,
biochemistry or similar. The successful candidate should
be procient in English and should demonstrate his mo-
tivation to do a Phd and work in a multidisciplinary
research team with a highly collaborative spirit.
The closing date for applications is 9 ^th of January2017.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter (briey
describingresearch experience, interests, and career
goal), curriculum vitae (with list of publications if any),
and the names of three references (including address,
phone number and Email) to Karine VAN DONINCK
(karine.vandoninck@unamur.be)
Karine VAN DONINCK Full Professor Department of
Biology
T. +;32 (0)81 724 407 F. +32 (0)81 724
362 karine.vandoninck@unamur.be http://-
perso.fundp.ac.be/ ~kvandoni/ Universite de Namur
ASBL Rue de Bruxelles 61 - 5000 Namur Belgique
Karine Van Doninck <karine.vandoninck@fundp.ac.be >
UNevada LasVegas
HawaiianDrosophila
A PhD Assistantship position is available in the School
of Life Sciences at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas
(UNLV).
The successful student will be supported through a
combination of RA and TA positions. The student will
become part of a vibrant, interdisciplinary research team
investigating the evolutionary genetics, ecology, and be-
havior of Hawaiian picture-winged *Drosophila* in Dr.
Donald Price's laboratory (https://sites.google.com/a/-
unlv.edu/donald-price/). The student will enroll in the
PhD program in Biological Sciences with a start date
for the position of August 2017.
Project Summary - The spectacular diversity of the ca.
120 species of Hawaiian picture-wing *Drosophila* dis-
play highly divergent behavioral, ecological and morpho-
logical traits. The overarching goal of this project is to
determine the functional genomics underlying adaptive
radiation for three Hawaiian picture-wing *Drosophila
*species. Recombinant inbred lines between *D. sil-
vestris* and *D. heteroneura* and between *D. silvestris
*and* D. planitibia* will be created and the genomes
of each line sequenced. RNA-seq analysis will be con-
ducted in targeted tissues to analyze the tissue-specic
gene expression proles and phenotypic traits will be
measured that dier between species that play critical
roles in adaptation, reproduction and reproductive isola-
tion between species. The combined analysis of genome
sequence analysis, RNA-seq proling and phenotypic
trait analysis in these recombinant lines will allow for66 EvolDir January 1, 2017
an understanding of the role of structural genomic and
gene expression in the development and expression of
phenotypic traits important in adaptive divergence. The
graduate student will be engaged in each phase of this
project with a focus on analyzing the genomes and phe-
notypic traits in the recombinant lines. The graduate
student will be expected to develop independent research
projects.
The student must meet admission requirements to the
PhD program of the School of Life Sciences (https:/-
/www.unlv.edu/lifesciences/admissions). Additionally,
to be considered for this position, the student ideally
will have: a) completed a master's degree or graduated
by August 2017. Someone with a Bachelor's degree with
extensive research experience may qualify; b) performed
laboratory or eld research in evolutionary or behavioral
genetics as part of master's degree research; c) published
(or in prep.) one or more manuscripts from a research
project from master's degree research or other research.
The student should be self-motivated, able to work in
teams, and have an interest in working and living in
southern Nevada and being part of UNLV graduate and
research programs.
The School of Life Sciences is one of the largest aca-
demic units on the UNLV campus. It has 30 full-time
faculty members, 10 adjunct and research faculty, ap-
proximately 2000 undergraduate majors and 50 gradu-
ate students. Further information on the program and
university is accessible via the School of Life Sciences
website (http://www.unlv.edu/lifesciences). UNLV is
an urban university surrounded by extensive public
land including Lake Mead National Recreation Area,
Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, Desert
National Wildlife Refuge, and the Spring Mountains
National Recreation Area. Outdoor recreation opportu-
nities abound year-round.
Interested candidates should email me (don-
ald.price@unlv.edu) the following: (a) 1-page statement
of interest outlining your background, coursework, re-
search and publication experience including laboratory
and eldwork, research interests and career goals; (b)
CV or resume including undergraduate and Master's
degrees and GPA, list of relevant coursework, and
employment and professional experience; (c) names and
contact information of three academic or professional
references. In your email, please use a subject line of:
Hawaiian Drosophila UNLV PhD Position Application
(your name). We will contact applicants directly for
further consideration.
Donald K. Price, Ph.D. Director and Professor School
of Life Sciences University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S
Maryland Pkwy Las Vegas, NV 89154School of Life Sciences: Director Oce: 702.895.2053
Oce: 702.895.4456 Lab: 702.895.4457
donald.price@unlv.edu
https://www.unlv.edu/lifesciences https://-
sites.google.com/a/unlv.edu/donald-price/home
\donald.price@unlv.edu" <donald.price@unlv.edu >
UNevada Reno PlantPopGenetics
The Parchman lab at the University of Nevada, Reno
is recruiting a PhD student to conduct population ge-
netic and genomic analyses on a suite of native plants in
the Great Basin Desert. The student would be advised
by Dr. Thomas Parchman (Department of Biology)
and co-advised by Dr. Elizabeth Leger (Department of
Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences). This
work, funded by a USDA NIFA grant, aims to deter-
mine the phenotypes and evolutionary histories that
enhance seedling establishment and to analyze the ge-
netic structure and diversity of native plant populations
to inform restoration practices. Ideal applicants would
have strong interest in plant evolutionary genetics and a
combination of some or all of the following qualications:
1) Molecular genetic laboratory experience, 2) Program-
ming experience in R, Unix, and Perl (or Python), 3)
Past experience or serious interest in the ecology and
evolutionary biology of Great Basin native plants 4)
Past experience or strong interest in restoration ecology
and restoration genetics.
UNR has a strong interdisciplinary PhD program in
Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology (http:/-
/environment.unr.edu/eecb/). Graduate students ac-
cepted into the EECB program are guaranteed nancial
support through Teaching Assistantships (TAs), which
includes health insurance and an out-of-state tuition
waiver. For this position, funds are additionally avail-
able for a number of semesters will be available through
Research Assistantships (RAs). The successful appli-
cant will begin the PhD program in Summer or Fall
2017, with the possibility of joining the lab sooner as a
technician.
University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) is a Tier I research
university located in a spectacular environment at the
conuence of the Great Basin and the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. The faculty and graduate students at UNR
are highly interactive and include an internationally
known group of evolutionary biologists and ecologists.
The Parchman lab has recently been renovated, and isJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 67
equipped with ample (and new) molecular and compu-
tational resources for modern genome sequence analysis.
We are also located in an ideal setting for eld-based
projects in the Great Basin and Sierra Nevada regions,
allowing enviable access to spectacular montane and
desert ecosystems. Reno is only 40 minutes from Lake
Tahoe, oers a high quality of living, an excellent cli-
mate, and is a large enough city to oer diverse activities
and amenities. World class rock climbing, skiing, and
mountain biking opportunities are in extremely close
proximity.
Interested applicants should send a CV, copies of tran-
scripts, and a statement of research experience and
interests to Tom Parchman (tparchman@unr.edu) and
Elizabeth Leger (eleger@cabnr.unr.edu). Consideration
will begin on January 30th, but will be open until lled.
Thomas L Parchman <tparchman@unr.edu >
UNewHampshire
ComparativePhylogenomics
NSFfunded PhD position available at the University of
New Hampshire!|
TheLesser, Plachetzki (http://www.unh.edu/plachetzki-
lab/), and MacManes (http://genomebio.org) Labs at
the University of New Hampshire are in search of a
talented PhD student to work on a NSF-Dimensions
of Biodiversity-funded project aimed at examining the
relationships between marine sponges and their micro-
biomes.
Theproject will identify the phylogenetic, genetic, and
functional biodiversity of coral reef sponges across the
Caribbean basin. This work will combine cutting edge
techniques in phylogenetic comparative methods and the
analysis of high throughput Illumina sequencing data.
Though this student will focus on phylogenetic compar-
ative methods and genomics, there will be opportunities
for eld work in the Caribbean to learn techniques in
marine and coral reef biology. We especially encourage
students of diverse and non-traditional backgrounds to
apply. The successful candidate may have an undergrad-
uate degree in Biology, Computer Science, Statistics,
Mathematics, or other disciplines.|
Applicationsare to be submitted to the UNH
graduate school (http://www.gradschool.unh.edu/-
apply.php, Deadline January 15). Interested
students are strongly encouraged to con-tact us at matthew.macmanes@unh.edu and
david.plachetzki@unh.edu. Please include a CV
and statement of purpose with correspondence.|
MatthewMacManes @macmane
Matthew.Macmanes@unh.edu
UOklahoma EvolutionaryPhysioEcol
UOklahoma Graduateposition Evolutionary physiologi-
cal ecology
I am recruiting graduate students to join me at the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma starting Fall 2017! My lab focuses
on understanding the impacts of temporal variability in
stress on ectotherms, and the evolution of these traits,
and integrates tools from gene expression through to
species distribution modeling at multiple levels of bio-
logical organization. While my past work focused on
energetic and mechanistic eects of repeated freezing
and cold events in insects, I'm broadening my scope
in this new lab to include desiccation and heat toler-
ance. Upcoming studies include work on eastern spruce
budworm and tropical dung beetles, with the potential
for eldwork in Arizona and Ecuador. I'm happy to
accomodate individual students' research interests and
keen to pursue evolutionary questions as they pertain
to stress tolerance.
Prospective students can read more about my work
here: http://www.ou.edu/content/cas/biology/people/-
faculty/katie-marshall.html Geographical ecology is a
signicant core focus of the OU Department of Biol-
ogy, where I am part of a Geographical Ecology cluster
hire, together with Dan Allen (stream and riparian ecol-
ogy) and Katie Marske (comparative phylogeography).
Students will have the opportunity to interact with
these and other talented faculty and students in the
Geographical Ecology focus group and throughout the
department.
http://www.ou.edu/content/cas/biology.html Lab re-
sources include a wet lab for RNA sequencing prepa-
ration, physiological assays, and thermal performance
measures, a separate microscope room, access to cloud
computing resources, and an insectary for insect rearing.
Other Biology facilities on campus include a new Biology
Core Genomics lab, the Oklahoma Biological Survey and
the Sam Noble Museum of Natural History. OU is also
home to state-of-the-art climate and weather research,
including the National Weather Center, the Oklahoma68 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Mesonet, the Oklahoma Climatological Survey, and the
South Central Climate Science Center.
Funding for graduate students is currently available
in the form of 10-month teaching assistantships with
stipends, full tuition waivers and excellent health care
coverage, and numerous scholarships are available to
support graduate student research during the summer.
Interested students should get in touch (kemar-
shall@ou.edu) with a brief summary of your research
interests and relevant experiences and attach a re-
sume/CV. I will also be at SICB and would love to
chat (please email rst). Candidates from groups un-
derrepresented in STEM are encouraged to apply.
Find out more here: http://www.ou.edu/content/cas/-
biology/graduate-studies.html Dr. Katie Marshall
Assistant Professor Department of Biology, University
of Oklahoma Norman, Oklahoma
kemarshall@ou.edu
\Marshall, Katie E." <kemarshall@ou.edu >
UOtago NewZealand PopGenTheory
PhD in Epigenetic Theory
A PhD position is available within the Department of
Zoology at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New
Zealand. This position in the laboratory of Professor
Hamish G. Spencer is funded by the Marsden Fund of
the Royal Society of New Zealand. A scholarship cover-
ing fees plus a tax-free stipend of NZ $27,500 per year is
available for three years.
The project is part of a larger project entitled \Epi-
genetics and Evolutionary Theory." Just as natural
populations exhibit genetic variation, so too do they
harbour epigenetic variation, some of which is trans-
mitted from one generation to the next. This project
asks how we can explain this transgenerationally in-
herited epigenetic variation in natural populations and
what might be the consequences for evolution. The can-
didate will construct and analyse novel mathematical
models to investigate these matters, validating these
models with data from real examples, and using the
models to make novel predictions about the properties
of epigenetic variation in nature.
The successful candidate will have a strong interest in ap-
plying quantitative methods in biology. They will have adegree in biology and/or mathematics (or a related eld)
that included a research component (e.g., a dissertation
or a thesis). The degree (e.g., BSc(Hons), MSc) will
have been awarded with rst-class honours/distinction.
Our research group and the wider Department includes
world-class research sta, facilities and strong interna-
tional collaborations, oering excellent opportunities to
gain a variety of highly pertinent research and technical
skills.
For details about living in Dunedin, in the South
Island of New Zealand, see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
humanresources/join-otago/lifestyle-and-culture/
dunedin/index.html
As part of your application, please submit a CV, a
transcript of your university grades, a personal state-
ment of suitability and the names and contact de-
tails of two referees to Professor Hamish Spencer
(hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz).
Applications will close on Wednesday, 18 January 2017.
Hamish Spencer <hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz >
UQueensland MarsupialEvolution
University of Queensland, Marsupial evolution, focusing
on short-term evolution of 3D shape variation
The Weisbecker Lab at the University of Queensland and
the Phillips lab at Queensland University of Technology
(Brisbane, Australia), are looking for a motivated PhD
candidate to work on the short-term shape evolution
in the skeleton of marsupial mammals.The candidate
will be a central part of an Australian Discovery Project
grant project. The work will contribute to the develop-
ment of evolutionary baselines for morphological shape
evolution in marsupial mammals, with particular focus
on the question of how quickly morphological shape
changes in the evolutionary short-term. Expected out-
comes include improved understanding of short-term vs.
long-term morphological evolution, and a novel statisti-
cal framework for analysing morphological data, which
allows fossils to be merged into the tree of life.
Essential skills for this position are prociency in R
(particularly the phylogenetics and geometric morpho-
metrics packages). Good spoken and written English is
also essential. Experience in vertebrate morphology and
virtual 3D visualization (e.g. using Meshlab, Mimics,
or Avizo) is an advantage. Experience in the eld ofJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 69
vertebrate evolution is also desirable but not essential.
Acceptance for this PhD is contingent on a success-
ful application for PhD funding, with half the fund-
ing coming from the Weisbecker/Phillips labs and the
other half from the School of Biological Sciences at
the University of Queensland. OVERSEAS APPLICA-
TIONS ARE ENCOURAGED. The next deadline for
international scholarships is in on January the 27th
for starting in June 2017; applicants with at least one
publication have particularly good chances of being
accepted. International applicants can apply before
conferral of their degree if the degree is conferred soon
(contact for details). Students within Australia can
apply for an Australian Postgraduate Award. Note
also that UK applicants need to have a Master's degree.
For further information and conditions of employment,
please visit http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/scholarships
. Please send expressions of interest, along with a CV,
to Vera Weisbecker: v.weisbecker@uq.edu.au
Dr Vera Weisbecker
Lecturer
University of Queensland
School of Biological Sciences
Goddard Building 8
St. Lucia 4072
Australia
Ph.: +61 7 336 57071
UQ ALLY :: Supporting the diversity of sexuality and
gender identity at UQ.
www.weisbeckerlab.com.au Vera Weisbecker
<v.weisbecker@uq.edu.au >
UReading EvolutionCancerDispersal
== QMEE CDT Project available at the University of
Reading, UK, planned start date October 2017: http:/-
/www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/ == Title: Evolution
of dispersal and motility in cultured cell lines
== Main Supervisors: Dr Louise Johnson, Uni-
versity of Reading (https://www.reading.ac.uk/-
biologicalsciences/about/sta/l-j-johnson.aspx); Prof
James Bullock, CEH (http://www.ceh.ac.uk/sta/-
james-bullock); Dr Cristina Lo Celso, Imperial College
(https://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/c.lo-celso)== Co-Supervisor: Dr Tiany Taylor, Univer-
sity of Bath (http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/contacts/-
academics/tiany-taylor/)
== Project description: Dispersal and its evolution are
central to ecology, impacting processes such as specia-
tion, the maintenance of genetic diversity, and adapta-
tion to changing environments. Extensive theory sup-
ports this view, but robust empirical data is lacking,
partly due to practical diculties with current model
organisms (Duputie & Massol, Interface Focus 3:0028,
2013). However, dispersal theories can be tested in the
lab with microbial models (K ummerli et al. Evolution
63:939-49, 2009; Taylor et al. J Evol Biol 26:2644-53,
2013). Key questions in dispersal depend on a) the
genetic and epigenetic basis of dispersal phenotypes,
and b) the connections between dispersal and normal
movement patterns during an organism's life. We seek
a student to address the evolution and genetics of dis-
persal using data from a novel model system: cultured
cell lines derived from human cancers. Cell lines share
advantages with microbes (Taylor et al. Evol. Appl. 6:
535-548, 2013): they are small, tractable, clonal, and can
be frozen down. Lines are available with varying motil-
ity and hence dispersal phenotypes. However, unlike
bacteria, cancer cells exhibit complex epigenetic control
of phenotype, and appear to show plastic dispersal. Low
nutrient environments can result in increased motility
both in the short term, presumably due to plasticity,
and longer term, which may be the result of selection
(T. Taylor, unpublished data). By tracking cells and
their descendants, we have found a high broad-sense
heritability of motility within cancer cell populations
in vitro (Wass et al. in prep.), showing that cell lines
should rapidly respond to selection on motility. This
oers an easily identiable phenotype on which to track
the evolution of dispersal traits. Cell motility is also a
key component of metastasis, which has been analogised
to dispersal, although there is debate over the extent to
which this analogy is helpful (Arnal et al. Evol. Appl.
8.6 (2015): 541-544)). The aim of this project is to assess
the utility of cancer cells as model systems for under-
standing the evolutionary ecology of dispersal with the
potential for complex epigenetic control, and to use em-
pirical data to generate robust evolutionary models that
can be generalised to other organisms. This multidisci-
plinary project, using data from in vivo and in vitro cell
tracking, will involve analysis of large datasets of cell be-
haviour and lines of descent, and agent-based modelling
informed and parameterised by real data. Using video
and image analysis, we will quantify variation within
populations and correlations between cell relatives, mea-
sure population-level responses to environmental change,
and examine patterns of motility inheritance. Statis-70 EvolDir January 1, 2017
tical modelling will help disentangle the inuences of
ancestry and environment (e.g. cell-maternal eects) on
motility. Modelling will involve agent-based simulations
and analytical methods to represent the evolution of cell
motility under realistic, complex genetic control. Evo-
lutionary processes will be modelled under alternative
micro-environments to assess the conditions which drive
disparate evolutionary pathways. Insights will be gained
into the role of genetic architecture in the evolution of
dispersal.
== Multidisciplinary: Disciplines represented: Ecology
and evolution; Dispersal ecology; Population and evo-
lutionary genetics; Quantitative genetics; Agent based
modelling; Experimental evolution; Biomedical science;
Bioimage analysis
== Training: The student will be developing new ap-
plications or validation for existing theory/methods;
Working with large datasets; Agent based modelling
== Funding notes: Competition funded PhD project.
Applicants will have a 2.1 or higher in a relevant under-
graduate degree. Relevant post-graduate experience will
be considered. NERC-funded studentships are subject
to RCUK eligibility requirements, which are outlined
under \Student
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UReading FungalPathogenEvolution
The University and Reading, with Imperial College Lon-
don, UK invites applications for a PhD position in:
**Fungal pathogen evolution in a warming world: con-
sequences for human health and biodiversity**
Supervisors: Richard Walters and Mike Shaw at the
University of Reading, and Matthew Fisher at Imperial
College London.
The PhD student will study the thermal adaptation of
various important fungal pathogens involved in human
and wildlife disease, namely Batrachochytrium dendro-
batidis, a global amphibian pathogen causing amphibian
chytridiomycosis (Clare et al. 2016), Aspergillus fumi-
gatus, an opportunistic pathogen of plants and animalsincluding humans (Meis et al. 2016) and Fusarium oxys-
porum, an emerging crop disease. Recent phylogenetic
analyses reveals virulence is associated with warmer en-
vironments, reinforcing the view that fungal pathogens
were the driving evolutionary force behind vertebrate en-
dothermy, homeothermy and (arguably) the extinction
of the dinosaurs (Casadevall 2012). The successful ap-
plicant will establish the thermal performance of fungal
isolates using a novel 'gradient plate' and will explore
the evolutionary potential of pathogens under climate
change through the development of computer models
(e.g. Walters et al. 2012).
The project builds upon evolutionary epidemiology
projects currently funded by NERC where several hun-
dred isolates of these pathogens have already been iso-
lated ready for use. Main project aims are to: 1) relate
genetic variance in thermal performance e.g. thermal
optima and critical maximum temperature, to underly-
ing thermodynamic constraints and the selective envi-
ronment, 2) validate model predictions by quantifying
genetic variance for thermal performance curve biophys-
ical variables using a novel gradient plate approach on a)
hundreds of readily available genome-sequenced isolates
for B. dendrobatidis, A. fumigatus and F. oxysporum
and b) strains subject to laboratory evolution under
various thermal regimes, 3) identify genes associated
with isolate variation and their possible relationships
to biophysical variables and 4) review and adjust the
assumptions of the theoretical models given empirical
evidence.
The student will develop several skill sets identied as
'most wanted' in the biological and environmental sci-
ences by UK Research Councils, including modelling,
data management, numeracy and risk and uncertainty.
Specically, training will be provided in the following
areas: 1) mathematical biology and its application to
population genomics, enzyme kinetics and epidemiol-
ogy, 2) computer programming and its application to
Individual-Based Modelling, simulations and scenarios
and 3) statistically robust experimental design and prac-
tice.
We are seeking a strongly motivated person with BSc,
and ideally MSc degree, in biology or a related discipline.
The applicant should have good English language and
presentation skills. We provide training in modelling
and quantitative skills but the applicant should highlight
evidence of their enthusiasm and aptitude to learn them,
such as the type of data analyses undertaken in their
previous research projects or their use of R, for example.
Previous experience with fungi and experimental design
is an advantage.
The position is funded for 3.5 years (competitive fund-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 71
ing is obtained through the QMEE CDT). Stipend and
conditions are based on NERC PhD studentships. UK
residents (3&#43; years) are entitled to full funding and
tuition, EU applicants are entitled to partial funding.
Starting date is 1 October 2017.
If you are interested in this position, please send your
CV, along with a letter of motivation and the contact
details of two references as a single PDF to Richard
Walters (r.j.walters@reading.ac.uk). Deadline for appli-
cations is 19 January 2017. For questions, please use
the same email address as above.
The University of Reading and Imperial College Lon-
don are strong advocates of equality and diversity in
research and teaching and particularly encourage women
to apply.
References: Casadevall A (2012) PLoS Pathog.
DOI:10.1371/journal.ppat.1002808 Clare F et al. (2016).
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B. DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2015.0454
Meis JF et al. (2016). Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B. DOI:
10.1098/rstb.2015.0460 Walters RJ et al. (2012). Funct.
Ecol. DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2435.2012.02045.x
Weblinks: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt
https://mhasoba.pythonanywhere.com/qmee cdt/-
default/view proposals/view/proposals/36 Richard
Walters Ph.D.
Lecturer in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology QMEE
CDT Co-Director Reading Ecology Network lead
School of Biological Sciences Harborne Building (Oce
8F) University of Reading Whiteknights, Reading, Berk-
shire RG6 6BX (for Sat. Nat. use RG6 6UR) United
Kingdom
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
URhodeIsland
BiodiversityGenomics
The Lane Lab at the University of Rhode Island is invit-
ing PhD applicants to work on a recently funded NSF
GoLife project. The focus of the project is diversity
and genomics within the Stramenopiles, Alveolates and
Rhizaria - largely microbial eukaryotic taxa that are
underrepresented in traditional databases.The bulk of eukaryotic diversity is microbial and, when
compared to plants, animals and fungi, much of this
microbial diversity has been undersampled from the
standpoint of morphological, phylogenetic and genomic
data. This skew in data not only has consequences
for our understanding of the biodiversity of eukaryotic
life on Earth, but also how we interpret cellular and
evolutionary biology in the broadest sense. One of the
most diverse major clades of eukaryotes that has re-
cently emerged from phylogenomic analyses united the
Stramenopila, Alveolata and Rhizaria into the 'SAR'
group.
Initially this clade was controversial because it forced a
re-evaluation of the evolution of several characters, most
notably the spread of photosynthesis across eukaryotes.
However, additional data have robustly supported SAR
as an independent clade. Among the diverse lineages
within SAR, genomic-scale data are rare and concen-
trated in only a few areas, Apicomplexa (e.g. malarial
parasites), omycetes (e.g.
parasite 'water molds') and diatoms (e.g. ecologically
important phytoplankton). Despite their global ecologi-
cal importance, fewer than 50% of all SAR clades, and
only one third of non-photosynthetic SAR clades, are
represented by even a single genome in public databases.
This work will add at least 250 novel genomic-scale
datasets (transcriptomes, draft genomes, single-cell am-
plied genomes), focused primarily on capturing diver-
sity within SAR.
Details of the project can be found at http://-
www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD ID=-
1541510&HistoricalAwards ~Aolse Interested applicants
are encouraged to contact Chris Lane (clane[at]uri.edu)
to express interest and for more details.
Information of applying can be found at http://-
web.uri.edu/graduate-school/apply/ The deadline for
full consideration is Jan 15.
Chris Lane Associate Professor Integrated & Evol. Bio.
Graduate Director Department of Biological Sciences
University of Rhode Island 120 Flagg Road Kingston,
RI., 02881 Oce: CBLS 277 ph (401) 874-2683 fax (401)
874-2065 http://cels.uri.edu/bio/lanelab/ Chris Lane
<clane@uri.edu >72 EvolDir January 1, 2017
USheeld
CompGenomicsStructuralColour
Predicting genomic eects on structural colour Lead su-
pervisor: Dr Nicola Nadeau, Department of Animal and
Plant Sciences, University of Sheeld Co-supervisor: Dr
Andrew Parnell, Department of Physics and Astronomy,
University of Sheeld
Closing date: 6th January
We are looking for a student with advanced numerical
skills and an interest in both biology and physics to
work on a project predicting genomic eects on struc-
tural colour. Structural colours, caused by diraction
or interference of light from nano-scale structures, are
some of the brightest and most impressive colours in
nature. There has been extensive interest in replicat-
ing structural colours, which are produced from simple
biological materials that are cheap and non-toxic, and
can also have unique properties such as angle dependent
colour (iridescence). However, very little is known about
how the patterning of such ne structures is controlled
in biological systems and the genetic pathways control-
ling this have yet to be identied in any system. This
project would use genomic data from Heliconius but-
teries from South America to predict how individual
genetic loci control specic aspects of structural varia-
tion. The project will involve computational modelling
approaches, rstly to predict ne structural characteris-
tics from small angle x-ray scattering data and secondly
to predict this morphology from genotype.
The candidate should have a background or training
in physics, maths or computer science; or advanced nu-
merical skills from a biology background (e.g. through
masters-level training). Some experience or training
in data analysis or programming would be ideal. The
student should have the enthusiasm to get to grips with
concepts from both biology and physics. Interested
candidates are encouraged to contact either of the su-
pervisors with informal enquiries.
This project is funded through The Leverhulme Cen-
tre for Advanced Biological Modeling (CABM). Stu-
dentships are fully funded for 3 years including fees (at
UK/EU rate) and a stipend at the standard RCUK
rate (currently pounds 14,296, rising slightly each year).
These projects are available to UK, EU and overseas
applicants, but funding for tuition fees will be pro-vided to successful applicants at the UK/EU rate. This
means that students from outside the EU will need an-
other source of funding to cover the dierence between
UK/EU tuition fees and international fees. To apply go
to http://www.sheeld.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/-
apply/applying after reading the information contained
on that page click the link to the Postgraduate online
application form.
Dr Nicola Nadeau Dept. of Animal and Plant
Sciences Alfred Denny Building, University of
Sheeld Western Bank, Sheeld S10 2TN,
UK N.Nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)114
222 4717 http://nadeau-lab.group.shef.ac.uk/
\n.nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk" <n.nadeau@sheeld.ac.uk >
USheeld GeneticsOfAgeing
The genetics of how environmental uctuation ac-
celerates the ageing process Supervisors: Dr Mirre
Simons (University of Sheeld), Dr Sean Sweeney
(University of York) https://acce.shef.ac.uk/the-
genetics-of-how-environmental-uctuation-accelerates-
the-ageing-process/ Global warming has changed
the average environment experienced by organisms
but has also increased environmental variability.
Even if organisms are able to adapt to a sudden
change in average environmental conditions, rapidly
uctuating ecological conditions are predicted to impose
severe constraints on biodiversity. Indeed, we have
recently found that uctuating the diet content of ies
(Drosophila melanogaster) can dramatically speed up
the ageing process. This novel nding indicates severe
physiological costs of uctuations in the diet and opens
up the rst possibility to understand these costs in
detail. The powerful genetics readily available in ies
now allows a rapid and deep insight into these processes
with high relevance to understanding how diet impacts
on organisms.
You will use a combination of approaches in ies to
uncover the physiology responsible for the observed
vulnerability to uctuation in the diet. Through screen-
ing a large number of lines for the dietary phenotype,
genes regulating this physiology can be implicated us-
ing genome-wide association analysis. Such genes can
then be manipulated in ies to test whether they are
regulating causal physiology. Further experiments can
then elucidate the exact physiology responsible. The
wealth of dierent genetic lines of ies available in dedi-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 73
cated stock centres means that many intricate genetic
manipulations are only one or a few crosses away.
Recent work on the connection between ageing and diet
has suggested that the reward centre in the brain might
be key in regulating the valuation of diet and thereby
ageing. Such neuronal processes could, therefore, be an
important part of how organisms cope with uctuating
environments. You will test the involvement of these
brain areas in how ies respond to uctuations in their
diet. With the expertise oered by supervisor Dr Sean
Sweeney, you will be able to directly test the connections
between neuronal cell biology, accelerated ageing and
diet.
We seek a hard-working passionate student with a quan-
titative mindset and an interest in the biology of ageing.
Candidates with a diverse background in life science
will be considered. The broad scientic expertise of
the supervisors ensures a vibrant environment for the
student. We will empower the student to pursue his/her
own interests and acquire a wide array of skills. Your
research will not only have implications for how we un-
derstand a key process in evolution and conservation,
but also for biomedical science in which ageing research
and in particular the connection to diet is growing in
importance.
contact: m.simons@sheeld.ac.uk
\m.simons@sheeld.ac.uk" <m.simons@sheeld.ac.uk >
USouthernCalifornia
EvolMitochondriaSexAging
Ph.D. position in Mitochondrial Eects on Sex-Specic
Aging
The Edmands Lab at the University of Southern Cali-
fornia in Los Angeles ( https://dornsife.usc.edu/labs/-
edmands/) is recruiting a Ph.D. student for research
developing the copepod Tigriopus californicus as a new
model for the eects of mitochondria and mitonuclear
interactions on sex-specic aging. The ideal applicant
would have a strong interest in evolutionary genetics
and aging, with experience in genomics, transcriptomics
and/or bioinformatics.
Prospective students should email Suzanne Edmands
(sedmands@usc.edu) to discuss project possibilities. In
your email please include brief details about your GPA,
GRE, research interests, experience and reasons for pur-
suing a Ph.D.Applications should be submitted to the Marine Biol-
ogy and Biological Oceanography Graduate Program
at the University of Southern California ( https://-
dornsife.usc.edu/bisc/meb-admissions/). All Ph.D. stu-
dents in the program will have ve years of support
(including tuition remission and student health insur-
ance) through a combination of RAships, TAships and
fellowships. To receive full consideration for university
fellowships, applications must be submitted by January
15, 2017.
Suzanne Edmands Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 3616 Trousdale Parkway, AHF 316 Uni-
versity of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089
(213)740-5548 http://dornsife.usc.edu/labs/edmands/
edmandss@gmail.com
UStirling PopStructureAdaptation
Adapt, move or perish? Identifying syndromes of popula-
tion structure to predict species' responses to a changing
environment
We are seeking a highly motivated individual to carry
out PhD research at the University of Stirling that will
bridge the research elds of population biology, global
change biology and macroecology.
Climate change is already having profound eects on the
spatial distribution of many species. To ensure broad
coverage, studies often treat species as uniform entities
and generate predictions of a species' overall ability to
adapt, move or perish. However, the population is the
unit that will respond to a changing climate, therefore
making robust predictions on emergent species-level re-
sponses should ideally involve consideration of how the
populations that make up a species' range are structured.
Population structure has been quantied for individual
species, but these data are rarely synthesised across
species to identify common syndromes: a main aim of
this project.
This is an ambitious PhD project that has the scope
to generate novel and signicant insights on the role
of population structure in determining species' range
dynamics. It will combine generation of a large and
unique cross-species dataset of measures of population
structure and its potential drivers (from existing litera-
ture) with sophisticated modelling techniques to identify
syndromes and make predictions on emergent species-
level responses. It will suit a quantitatively-minded
student with a biological background. For more in-74 EvolDir January 1, 2017
formation and to apply: https://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=80692&LID=1455
Lynsey Bunnefeld
Room 4B157, Cottrell Building Biological & Environ-
mental Sciences University of Stirling FK9 4LA, Scot-
land
01786 467770 lynsey.bunnefeld@stir.ac.uk
lynsey.bunnefeld@stir.ac.uk
USussex FloralEvolution
* PhD position available to study ower evolution during
range expansions at the University of Sussex*
Main supervisor: Maria Clara Castellanos
(www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/plant-evolutionary-ecology-
lab); co-supervisor: Dave Goulson (www.sussex.ac.uk/-
lifesci/goulsonlab)
We are looking for an enthusiastic, independent stu-
dent interested in plant-animal interactions and plant
evolution to explore how new pollinator environments
on dierent continents can generate oral evolution-
ary innovation. The project will use several plant
species that can be studied in their native and new
ranges, and combine eld and molecular work with
greenhouse studies to understand how plants deal with
changes in their pollinators. For further details on the
project please visit www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/fees-
and-scholarships/scholarships/view/692 .The student
will be part of the vibrant Evolution, Behaviour and
Environment subject group within the University of
Sussex; our campus is located within a national park,
10 minutes from the seashore city of Brighton.
This 3.5-years fully funded studentship is open to
UK and EU citizens. The closing date for applica-
tions is 31st January 2017. Applications should be
submitted through Sussex University's graduate appli-
cation system: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/study/phd/-
apply. Please include a CV, statement of interest and
the names and email addresses of two academic referees.
The expected starting date is September 1st 2017.
Email me for informal inquires:
m.c.castellanos@sussex.ac.uk.
\M.C.Castellanos@sussex.ac.uk"
<M.C.Castellanos@sussex.ac.uk >UTArlington Evolution
The Department of Biology at the University of Texas
at Arlington (http://www.uta.edu/biology/) invites ap-
plications for our PhD program beginning in Fall 2017.
PhD students are awarded competitive stipends, tu-
ition remission, and health benets. Research in the
department includes a wide range of topics in ecology,
evolution, genomics, microbiology, and cell and develop-
mental biology.
For general inquiries about the program, please
contact our graduate advisors: Shawn Chris-
tensen (shawnc@uta.edu) or Woo-suk Chang
(wschang@uta.edu). For more specic questions
about research directions, please contact potential
advisers directly using the contact information on their
webpages (https://www.uta.edu/biology/faculty.php).
We will start reviewing applications on December
15th 2016. The on-line application process requires
submission of the formal graduate school application,
transcripts, GRE scores (general test required), three
letters of reference, and, for non- native speakers of
English, TOEFL or IELTS scores. Applications can be
submitted via the following link: http://www.uta.edu/-
admissions/graduate/apply/how-to-apply.php . The
Department and University have numerous resources in-
cluding state-of-the-art labs, an Animal Care Facility, a
Genomics Core Facility, a Center for Human Genomics,
and the newly established Shimadzu Institute for
Research Technologies - a major partnership between
UT Arlington and Shimadzu Scientic Instruments
that oers extensive resources for imaging, proteomics
and analytical chemistry. The Department also
benets from access to core UT-system genomics and
computational resources at UT Southwestern Medical
Center and the Texas Advanced Computing Center
(TACC) - one of the leading advanced computing
centers in the U.S.
Arlington is a city of approximately 365,000 and is con-
veniently located in the center of the Dallas-Fort Worth
Metroplex. Within a 25-mile radius of the center of
Arlington is a workforce of over two million people. The
city has 82 public parks, including River Legacy Parks,
a 1,300-acre oasis on the Trinity River in the heart of
north Arlington. Arlington is the home of the Dallas
Cowboys Stadium, the Texas Rangers Ballpark, and
Six Flags Over Texas. Cost of living is relatively lowJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 75
for a major metropolitan area. The Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport is the fourth largest airport in
the US. More information on the city of Arlington can
be found at www.experiencearlington.org . Matthew
R. Walsh, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology University of Texas at Arlington Arlington TX
76019 Oce: 817-272-1546 Lab: 817-272-9079 Email:
matthew.walsh@uta.edu
\Walsh, Matthew" <matthew.walsh@uta.edu >
UTubingen FloweringPhenology
The Plant Evolutionary Ecology group (http://-
www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco) at the University
of T ubingen in Germany invites applications for a
** PhD position in Plant Ecology **
The PhD student will combine eld surveys with the
study of herbarium collections to investigate how land
use and climate change aect the owering phenol-
ogy of forest understory plants. The project is part
of the Biodiversity Exploratories (www.biodiversity-
exploratories.de), one of the largest ecology projects
in the world, which will allow the student to interact
with many other ecological researchers. It will also be
in close collaboration with the Ancient Genomics &
Evolution group at the MPI for Developmental Biology,
who will study genomic changes in the same plants.
The successful applicant will be based in T ubingen. The
eld work will take place across Germany in the Hainich,
Schw abische Alb and Schorfheide regions. The herbar-
ium work will be in several German herbaria, mainly
T ubingen, Stuttgart, Jena and Berlin.
The University of T ubingen is one of the oldest univer-
sities in Germany, and T ubingen a beautiful university
town with a high quality of life. The Plant Evolutionary
Ecology group at the University of T ubingen studies
the ecology, evolution and genetics of plants in changing
environments.
We are looking for a student with a strong interest in
plant ecology and global environmental change. The suc-
cessful candidate should have a MSc in biology, a good
command of English, and a driving licence. Botanical
and statistical skills are a plus, but not a must.
The position is funded for 3 years (pending nal con-
rmation by the DFG). Salary is at the scale 13 TV-L
(65%). Starting date is 1 March 2017 but can be nego-tiated.
If you are interested in this position, please send
your CV, along with a letter of motivation and the
contact details of two references as a single PDF to
oliver.bossdorf@uni-tuebingen.de. Deadline for applica-
tions is 8 January 2017. For questions, please use the
same email address as above.
The University of T ubingen aims at increasing the share
of women in research and teaching and particularly
encourages women to apply.
{ Plant Evolutionary Ecology Institute of Evolution
and Ecology University of T ubingen T ubingen -
Germany http://www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco
\niek.scheepens@biologie.uni-tuebingen.de"
UTubingen
PlantPhenotypicPlasticity
The Plant Evolutionary Ecology group (http://-
www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco) at the University
of T ubingen in Germany invites applications for a
** PhD position in Plant Evolutionary Ecology **
The PhD student will study the rapid evolution of grass-
land plants in response to land use. Specically, the
project will test whether plants evolve greater pheno-
typic plasticity when environments become more tempo-
rally variable in terms of mowing, grazing and fertiliza-
tion. The successful applicant will collect seeds in three
dierent regions of Germany (Hainich, Schw abische Alb
and Schorfheide), conduct controlled greenhouse experi-
ments in T ubingen to assess plastic responses to exper-
imental treatments, integrate experimental data with
land use, vegetation, and molecular data, and analyse
and publish results in peer-reviewed scientic journals.
The project is part of the Biodiversity Exploratories
(http://www.biodiversity-exploratories.de/), one of the
largest ecology projects in the world, which will allow
the student to interact with many other ecological re-
searchers. The University of T ubingen is one of the
oldest universities in Germany, and T ubingen has a rich
student life, a high quality of life and a beautiful old
town and surroundings (notably the Swabian Alb). The
Plant Evolutionary Ecology group at the University of
T ubingen studies the ecology, evolution and genetics of
plants in changing environments.
We are seeking a strongly motivated person with MSc76 EvolDir January 1, 2017
degree in biology (or equivalent). The applicant should
have good English language and presentation skills.
Knowledge of German language is not required, but
a driving licence is a must. Previous experience with
plant ecological experiments and data analysis (prefer-
ably in R) is an advantage.
The position is funded for 3 years (pending nal con-
rmation by the DFG). Salary and conditions are ac-
cording to a public service position in Germany (TV-L
E13; 65%). Starting date is 1 March 2017 but can be
negotiated.
If you are interested in this position, please send
your CV, along with a letter of motivation and the
contact details of two references as a single PDF to
niek.scheepens@biologie.uni-tuebingen.de. Deadline for
applications is 8 January 2017. For questions, please
use the same email address as above.
The University of T ubingen aims at increasing the share
of women in research and teaching and particularly
encourages women to apply.
{ Plant Evolutionary Ecology Institute of Evolution
and Ecology University of T ubingen T ubingen -
Germany http://www.uni-tuebingen.de/PlantEvoEco
\niek.scheepens@biologie.uni-tuebingen.de"
UYork AntHybridisationSpeciation
Hybridisation, speciation and genetic structure in a
woodland specialist
*Supervisor:* Dr Elva Robinson <http://-
www.york.ac.uk/biology/research/ecology-evolution/-
elva-robinson/ >
*Co-supervisors:* Dr Joan Cottrell (Forest Re-
search), Dr Kanchon Dasmahapatra <http://-
www.york.ac.uk/biology/research/ecology-evolution/-
kanchon-dasmahapatra/ >, Dr Kevin Watts (Forest
Research)
*Project description:*
Britain's forests oer key habitat for woodland species;
however, maintaining biodiversity under the demands
of timber production can be challenging. The highly
fragmented nature of British woodlands is a further
challenge because fragmentation leads to isolation, usu-
ally reducing genetic diversity of woodland dwelling
species, particularly in species with poor dispersal abil-
ities and exacting habitat requirements such as woodants (*Formica rufa* group). These species, threatened
across Europe, are key components of woodland ecosys-
tems and oer an ideal study system to explore the
impact of habitat fragmentation on genetic diversity of
a woodland species.
This study will clarify the conservation status of a ge-
netically unusual wood ant population in the North
York Moors (NYM) and will use wood ants to study
how dispersal and habitat fragmentation inuence the
formation of hybrids and new species. We will do this by
comparing the genetic diversity of the NYM population
to samples from across the UK and Eurasia. The data
will explain what creates the unusually high diversity
in the NYM and allow investigation of how wood ants
spread and diversied at the continental scale after the
last glacial period.
*Research team* The collaboration involves the Uni-
versity of York, CASE partner Forest Research, and a
project partner (University of Helsinki). The supervi-
sory team provide a range of skills, including genetic
techniques, eldwork skills, landscape analysis, and
expertise in forest management and invertebrate ecol-
ogy/evolution. This combination oers a challenging
and well-supported training environment and enables
the student to acquire a diverse skill-set with excellent
employment prospects.
*Applications* The results of our research will set the
NYM wood ant population in its broader European
context which will inform foresters, including Forestry
Commission practitioners, and DEFRA policy-makers,
in the development of appropriate management strate-
gies for the conservation and promotion of this key
woodland species group.
*Funding: *This is a NERC Industrial CASE stu-
dentship fully funded for 4 years and covers: (i) a
tax-free stipend at the standard Research Council rate
(pounds 14,296 for 2016-2017, to be conrmed for 2017-
2018), (ii) research costs, and (iii) tuition fees at the
UK/EU rate.
*Start date:* October 2017
*The studentship is available to UK and EU students
who meet the UK residency requirements.*
*To discuss your suitability for this project please email:
elva.robinson@york.ac.uk <elva.robinson@york.ac.uk >*
For more information, see: http://www.york.ac.uk/-
biology/postgraduate/research/funding/funded-
studentships/fullyfundedproject2-robinson/ *CLOS-
ING DATE FOR APPLICATIONS: Sunday 22nd
January 2017*
*Other related available PhD and MSc projects listedJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 77
here:*
https://pure.york.ac.uk/portal/en/researchers/-
elva-joan-hilda-robinson(9c6bafea-bb-444c-8d9f-
63b9312b9dce).html
{ EJH Robinson University of York
Elva.Robinson@york.ac.uk Twitter: @Elva Robinson <
http://twitter.com/Elva Robinson >
Home page <http://www.york.ac.uk/biology/-
research/ecology-evolution/elva-robinson/#research
>Publications list <http://scholar.google.co.uk/-
citations?user=FZZX koAAAAJ&hl=en >Email
disclaimer <http://www.york.ac.uk/docs/disclaimer/-
email.htm >
Biology at York holds an Athena Swan Gold Award <
http://www.york.ac.uk/biology/about/athena-swan/ >
Elva Robinson <ejhr500@yccsa.org >
UZurich EpigeneticsAdpatation
Joint PhD Position at the Department of Plant and
Microbial Biology (IPMB) and the Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology and Environmental Studies (EBES),
University of Zurich
We are looking for a motivated student who is inter-
ested in applying molecular approaches to study ques-
tions in ecology and evolution. The project will be
conducted under the joint supervision of an ecologist
and molecular geneticist to investigate the role of epige-
netic variation in adaptation (see project description be-
low). Please send your application to Bernhard Schmid
<bernhard.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch >and Ueli Grossniklaus
<grossnik@botinst.uzh.ch >, including your CV and a
short letter of motivation.
Population Epigenomics, Phenotypic Plasticity, and En-
vironmental Adaptation
Bernhard Schmid (EBES), Ueli Grossniklaus (IPMB)
Despite the heritability of epigenetic variation (EV),
its ecological and evolutionary signicance is largely
unknown and being controversially discussed [1-3]. In
plants, epigenetic changes can be heritable over genera-
tions [e.g. 4,5] and occur more frequently than genetic
ones [6,7]. Thus EV may allow rapid responses and
has the potential to play a key role in the adaptation
to environmental change. However, published results
are contradictory, possibly because very small samplenumbers were molecularly analyzed and experimental
replication is insucient [discussed in 3,8,9]. Over the
last years, we have collected experimental data demon-
strating a role for epigenetics in the response to changes
in the biotic and abiotic environment using Arabidopsis
thaliana as a model. We could demonstrate the selec-
tion of new, stable phenotypes in genetically uniform
backgrounds in independent, replicated selection experi-
ments, suggesting a role of EV in adaptation [see also
10]. The results, however, depended on the experimen-
tal set-up: while we found no evidence for a role in
adaptation when starting with seeds from a single indi-
vidual, stable phenotypes were selected when starting
with seeds derived from a population. Although mate-
rials and selection scenarios used where highly diverse,
this nding indicates that there is standing EV in ge-
netically uniform populations that can be selected upon
but that the rate of epigenetic change from generation
to generation is too low to generate sucient variation
when starting from an individual. We will test this
hypothesis in a highly replicated experiment involving
3 genotypes in 3 environments that should help to set-
tle the controversy on the ecological and evolutionary
signicance of epigenetic variation.
[1] Grossniklaus U, Kelly WG, Ferguson-Smith AC, Pem-
brey M, Lindquist S (2013) Transgenerational epigenetic
inheritance: how important is it? Nat Rev Genet 14:228-
235.
[2] Heard E, Martienssen RA (2014) Transgenerational
epigenetic inheritance: myths and mechanisms. Cell
157:95-109.
[3] Hirsch S, Baumberger R, Grossniklaus U (2012) Epi-
genetic variation, inheritance, and selection in plant
populations. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol 77:97-
104.
[4] Cubas P, Vincent C, Coen E (1999) An epigenetic
mutation responsible for natural variation in oral sym-
metry. Nature 401:157-161.
[5] Manning K, Tor M, Poole M, Hong Y, Thompson
AJ, King GJ, Giovannoni JJ, Seymour GB (2006) A
naturally occurring epigenetic mutation in a gene en-
coding an SBP-box transcription factor inhibits tomato
fruit ripening. Nat Genet 38:948-952
[6] Schmitz RJ, Schultz MD, Lewsey MG, O'Malley
RC, Urich MA, Libiger O, Schork NJ, Ecker JR (2011)
Transgenerational epigenetic instability is a source of
novel methylation variants. Science 334:369-373.
[7] Becker C, Hagmann J, Muller J, Koenig D, Stegle
O, Borgwardt K, Weigel D (2011) Spontaneous epige-
netic variation in the Arabidopsis thaliana methylome.
Nature 480:245-249.78 EvolDir January 1, 2017
[8] Pecinka A, Rosa M, Schikora A, Berlinger M, Hirt
H, Luschnig C, Mittelsten Scheid O (2009) Transgen-
erational stress memory is not a general response in
Arabidopsis. PLoS One 4:e5202.
[9] Pecinka A, Mittelsten Scheid (2012) Stress-induced
chromatin changes: a critical view on their heritability.
Plant Cell Physiol 53:801-808.
[10] Zuppinger-Dingley D, Schmid B, Petermann JS,
Yadav V, de Deyn GB, Flynn D (2014) Selection for
niche dierentiation in plant communities increases bio-
diversity eects. Nature 515:108-111.
Dr. Bernhard SCHMID Professor of Environmental
Sciences bernhard.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch Department of
Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies Uni-
versity of Zurich Winterthurerstr. 190 Tel.: ++41 (0)44
635 5205 (Room 34-J-22) Mobile: ++41 (0)79 681 9936
CH-8057 Zurich FAX: ++41 (0)44 635 5711 Switzer-
land http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/ Publications: http://-
www.researcherid.com/rid/C-8625-2009
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Valencia PlantConservation
PhD position Biotic interactions shaping plant
communities Reply-To: Alicia Montesinos
<ali.montesinos@gmail.com >
Applications are invited for a PhD position to join the
department of Plant Ecology in the Research Center of
Desertication (CIDE) in Valencia, Spain
http://www.uv.es/uvweb/desertication-research-
centre/en/departments-/plant-ecology-/presentation-
1285896767023.html). The successful candidate will
work on a project investigating the use of biotic inter-
actions as a tool to improve the success of ecological
restauration proposals. The project focuses on the
understanding of the environmental lters shaping
plant communities in semiarid environments, especially
in gypsum soils, and its eects on the phylogenetic
diversity and local adaptations of plants in these
communities. It will approach how certain biotic
interactions such as plant facilitative interactions,
plant-mycorrhizal fungi and plant-herbivore interactionscan alleviate or promote environmental lters in
these stressful environments. This PhD project will
contribute to the understanding of biotic and abiotic
lters shaping plant communities under stressful
conditions in order to design ecient and successful
ecological restauration proposals.
The applicant will be encouraged to propose her/his
own ideas and research interests within this conceptual
framework, and in this sense, the candidate is expected
to be highly motivated, and has curiosity and leadership
skills in order to propose ideas independently.
The Project will involve eldwork in gypsum plant com-
munities in south Alicante combined with greenhouse
experiments in Moncada (Valencia) (Spain).
Applicants must have a nished her/his degree after the
1st of January of 2013 and have an average grade of
academic record above 7.5 (out of 10). Interested appli-
cants can apply via email (ali.montesinos@gmail.com),
before the 15th of January of 2017 providing the fol-
lowing information: CV, academic record scores, brief
statement of research interests, research experience and
motivation, and the email of two researches willing to
provide a support letter for the candidate.
*Contact information:*
Alicia Montesinos Navarro
Email: ali.montesinos@gmail.com Web: https:/-
/www.researchgate.net/prole/Alicia Montesinos-
Navarro {
Alicia Montesinos Navarro
Centro de investigacion sobre deserticacion (CIDE-
CSIC) Carretera Moncada - N aquera, Km. 4,5 46113
Moncada (Valencia) Spain Tel +34 96 3424126 Fax +34
96 3424160
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Alicia Montesinos-Navarro Alicia Montesinos
<ali.montesinos@gmail.com >
Vienna PopulationGenetics
Reminder: The 2017 call for PhD students at the Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics (Twitter
@PopGenViennaPhD) is now open:
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one of
the leading centres of population genetics. The *Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics* has beenJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 79
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from *highly motivated and out-
standing students* with a background in one of the
following disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolu-
tionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and
experimental population genetics. Students from re-
lated disciplines, such as physics or mathematics are
also welcome to apply.
Topics include:
- Evolution of gene expression
- Understanding thermal adaptation
- The impact of new transposable element insertions on
adaptation to a new environment
- *Wolbachia* infection dynamics in evolving
*Drosophila* populations
- The adaptive value of diversity produced by recurrent
whole genome doubling
- Epigenetic variation in *Arabidopsis*
- Genetic footprints of adaptive introgression
- New methods for modelling and analysis of data from
experimental evolution
- Maximum likelihood inference of population genetic
parameters using genome-wide data from nearly neutral
sites
Only complete applications (application form, CV, moti-
vation letter, university certicates, indication of the two
preferred topics *in a single pdf*) received by *January
08, 2017* will be considered. Two letters of recommen-
dation need to be sent directly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics,
the training program and the application procedure
can be found at www.popgen-vienna.at Julia Hosp
<Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at >VirginiaCommonwealthU
EvolGenetics
PhD position
The Dyer laboratory (http://dyerlab.bio.vcu.edu) has
an opening for a doctoral student in the Integrative Life
Sciences Doctoral program (https://goo.gl/qKVrrN) at
Virginia Commonwealth University (http://vcu.edu) to
work on a landscape epigenetics project.
The successful applicant for this position will be:
- Capable of using R for statistical inferences and spatial
analyses, - Able to work successfully in the laboratory
creating next-gen libraries, and - Excited about con-
ducting eld work in Baja California, Mexico.
To apply, send CV with contact information of at least
3 academic referees to rjdyer@vcu.edu. The application
deadline for the VCU ILS PhD program is 10 January
2017.
{ Dr. Rodney J. Dyer, Director Center for En-
vironmental Studies Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity http://dyerlab.bio.vcu.edu \rjdyer@vcu.edu"
<rjdyer@vcu.edu >
VirginiaTech 2 AvianBehaviour
*PhD Student, Avian Behavioral Neurobiology, Biologi-
cal Sciences, Virginia Tech*
The Sewall lab in the Department of Biological Sciences
at Virginia Tech is recruiting up to 2 PhD students. Re-
search in the lab examines the eects of the ecological
and social environment on neural plasticity, communi-
cation, and social behavior in songbirds. The successful
applicant(s) will conduct eld and captive research on
songbird communication and cognition, as well as his-
tology, immunohistochemistry, and molecular assays to
examine makers of neural plasticity and brain function.
Being accepted into the PhD program at Virginia Tech
and Dr. Sewall's lab will provide extensive training in
animal behavior, neurobiology, and ecology by the PI,
lab members, and a group of exceptional researchers in
organismal biology, including Drs. Joel McGlothlin, Ig-80 EvolDir January 1, 2017
nacio Moore, Dana Hawley, and Bill Hopkins. Graduate
students at Virginia Tech are provided a stipend and
tuition coverage in exchange for service as a teaching or
research assistant.
To Apply: Send a cover letter summarizing your prior
experience, professional goals, and research interests, as
well as a CV and contact information for at least three
academic references to Kendra Sewall ( ksewall@vt.edu).
The application deadline funding through the graduate
program is December 31st.
For more information see links below. the Sewall
lab: http://vtsewall.weebly.com/index.html Virginia
Tech Biological Sciences: http://www.biol.vt.edu/-
index.html Kendra Sewall, PhD Assistant Professor
Biological Sciences 3024/3026 Derring Hall Virginia
Tech 1405 Perry St Mail Code 0406 Blacksburg, VA
24061 540.231.5617 http://vtsewall.weebly.com/ \kse-
wall@vt.edu" <ksewall@vt.edu >
WashingtonStateU ConservationBiol
PhD positions at Washington State University
The Goldberg Lab at Washington State University, Pull-
man, is looking for 1-2 new Ph.D. students to start Fall
2017 in the School of the Environment. Our group devel-
ops and applies environmental DNA, genomic, and spa-
tial analysis methods to conservation issues throughout
western North America and internationally, primarily
focusing on amphibians. Applicants should be inter-
ested in pursuing quantitative landscape-level questions
in a conservation and management context. Students
will have the opportunity to work on ongoing projects,
develop their own project, or a combination of the two.
Projects with anticipated funding include landscape
genomics of amphibians, hybridization of endangered
amphibians, and eDNA detection of rare aquatic species.
Students will be funded on a combination of TA and
RAships, depending on project choice and funding avail-
ability. TA support is guaranteed for 3 years.
An M.S. degree by Spring 2017 is required. To apply,
send a cover letter describing your interests, CV, and
contact information for three references as one pdf to
caren.goldberg at wsu.edu. An ocial application must
also be submitted to WSU by January 10th, 2017.
Caren Goldberg https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=XGutsLEAAAAJ&hl=en Caren
Goldberg Assistant Professor, Quantitative SpatialEcology School of the Environment Washington State
University (FedEx/UPS) 100 Dairy Rd./404 Heald Hall
(USPS only) P.O. Box 642812 Pullman, WA 99164-2812
(509) 335-3673
\Goldberg, Caren" <caren.goldberg@wsu.edu >
WesternWashingtonU
GeneExpressionVariation
The Pollard lab at Western Washington University
(http://cse.wwu.edu/biology-faculty/pollard) has an
opening for a master's graduate student who is inter-
ested in the genetic mechanisms of natural variation in
gene expression. We use mating pheromone response
in budding yeast as a system to study how genetic vari-
ation acts at both the transcript and protein levels to
modify the dynamics of protein expression.
The ideal candidate will have (1) a strong interest in evo-
lution, genetics, cell biology, and computational biology,
(2) experience with basic molecular biology techniques,
and (3) the ability to communicate clearly, interact
collaboratively, and derive a sense of motivation from
within. The lab welcomes qualied applicants with
diverse backgrounds.
The Pollard lab is located on the top oor of the WWU
Biology building, adjacent to molecular biology and ge-
nomics labs and across the sky bridge from biochemistry
labs with overlapping interests. We meet weekly to dis-
cuss projects and journal articles. Outside of the lab we
enjoy going for hikes to collect wild yeasts together.
Western Washington University is a mid-sized public lib-
eral arts university located in Bellingham, WA. Belling-
ham is a beautiful coastal town in the Northeast corner
of Puget Sound, 50 miles south of Vancouver, 30 miles
west of Mt. Baker, 90 miles north of Seattle, and 20
miles east of the San Juan Islands.
Interested candidates are strongly encouraged to contact
Dr. Pollard by email ( dan.pollard (at) wwu.edu ) with
a description of their interests and carrier goals and a
CV including relevant experience, GPA, GRE scores,
and the names of 2-3 references.
Ocial application is due February 1st. Appli-
cation details: http://www.wwu.edu/gradschool/-
how-to-apply.shtml Masters program: http://-
catalog.wwu.edu/preview program.php?catoid=-
3D12&poid=3D5419&returnto=2524 Current masters
students: https://cse.wwu.edu/biology/graduate-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 81
students Pollard lab: https://cse.wwu.edu/-
biology-faculty/pollard Biology Department:
https://cse.wwu.edu/biology Bellingham: http:/-/www.bellingham.org/ \Dan.Pollard@wwu.edu"
<Dan.Pollard@wwu.edu >
Jobs
Bayer MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
CarletonU EvolutionaryHealthSciences . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
CarnegieMuseumNatHist ReaCuratorAmphibiansRep-
tiles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
CollegeOfCharleston EvolutionaryMicrobialGenetics 84
HowardU VertebrateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
IndianaU BioinformaticAnalyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
Liverpool MosquitoBorneDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Lyon PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
OregonStateU ResAssist ConservationGenetics . . . . 87
StCloudStateU Minesota ComputationalMicrobiol . 87
StockholmU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Tanzania 12mnths PrimateProjectManager . . . . . . . . 88
TelAvivU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UBristol 4 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UCalifornia Davis WildlifeConservation . . . . . . . . . . . 90UCanterbury NZ Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UCollegeLondon HumanGenetics ComputationalBiol 92
UFlorida FacultyResSci ButteryMothGenomics . . .93
UGroningen 10 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
UHohenheim CropQuantitativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 94
UKonstanz AquaticGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
ULiverpool 3 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .96
UOklahoma ComputationalMicrobiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UOregon ResAsst EvolutionHost-Microbe . . . . . . . . . 97
USalzburg EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
USouthCarolina EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
UVienna PopulationGenomics StatisticalGenetics 100
UWashington NoninvasiveGenetics LabManager . . 101
UWashington PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UWisconsin Milwaukee Dean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
ZFMK Germany HeadOfMolecularLab . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Bayer MicrobialGenomics
GRAD SCHOLAR - MicrobialGenomics/Machine
Learning To support R&D projects within Biologics
Bayer CropScience (BCS), to drive innovative crop pro-
tection and plant health solutions, and to develop and
implement b data analysis tools and algorithms. The
candidate will work closely with wet lab scientists and
computational scientists in West Sacramento, CA and
other scientists throughout BCS.Position: Major Tasks - Proactively identifying and
incorporating novel statistical methodologies to link
bacterial taxonomy/genomics to function. - Participate
in a multi-disciplinary team of scientists who oer com-
parative genomics, pathway modeling, network analyses,
and metagenomics for controlling pests and diseases
in plant and promoting plant health using microbes. -
Conduct research and collaborate with scientists using
machine learning methodologies to examine microbial
processes and mechanisms that underlie plant-microbe
interactions, produce secondary metabolites, and con-
tribute to primary microbial metabolism. - Help drive
the experimental design, analysis, and interpretation
of HTS datasets incorporating total community analy-82 EvolDir January 1, 2017
sis(functional gene analysis, phylogenetic and network
analysis), comparative genomics, de novo assembly of
targeted specic community,genes and selected micro-
bial genomes. - You will be joining a computational life
sciences team which bringstogether expertise in biology,
computational science, statistics,bioinformatics and soft-
ware development. - Be able to communicate eectively
through listening, documentation,and presentation, es-
pecially using compelling visualization tools to share
analysis and interpretation of data. - Provide analysis
and feedback about experimental results to supervisors,
highlighting important results and dening next step
experiments. - Coordinate and cooperate on research
activities with peers, supervisors, and subordinates -
Communicate eectively by listening, documentation,
and presentation.
Position: Skills - PhD in Ecology and Evolution, Micro-
bial Ecology, Microbial Genetics/Physiology/Ecology,
Statistics, Applied Statistics, Machine Learning (or near-
ing substantial completion, provided all Ph.D. require-
ments are successfully completed within 6 months of
employment start date). - M.S. in Ecology and Evo-
lution, Bioinformatics, Microbial Ecology, Statistics,
Microbial Genetics/Physiology/Ecology, plus 1&#43;
years of relevant experience. - Proven ability to work
within a reproducible framework, handling large data
sets eciently using scripts,databases, and other tools; -
Should be highly versed in experimental design method-
ologies, mixed linear modeling, and machine learning
and be able to communicate the output with other scien-
tists around interpretation of these statistical analyses.
- Knowledge of R or Python is essential. - Knowledge
of other programming languages is a plus (Unix, Perl,
C, C++) - Knowledge of microbial physiology an asset.
https://career.bayer.us/job/Graduate-Scholar-
Microbial-Genomics{0000182024.html Janette
Gardiner <janette.gardiner@bayer.com > Janette
Gardiner <janette.gardiner@bayer.com >
CarletonU
EvolutionaryHealthSciences
Dear Colleagues,
Please see the job advertisement below for 3 positions
at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. We welcome
applications from scientists using evolutionary and pop-
ulation genetic approaches to address the topics listed,
hence we are posting the ad here. The \Big Data" posi-tion may be of particular interest to readers of EvolDir.
All the best,
Alex Wong
Assistant Professor Department of Biology Carleton
University
Health Sciences - Associate/Full Professors and Depart-
ment Chair (3 Positions)
Academic unit: Department of Health Sciences, Car-
leton University
Category of appointment: Preliminary (Tenure-Track)
Rank/Position title: Associate or Full Professor and
Chair of the Department (3 Positions)
Start date: July 1, 2017
Closing date for Applications: January 13, 2017
The Department of Health Sciences at Carleton Univer-
sity in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada is inviting applications
for three senior Associate or Full Professors, one of
whom will be Chair of the Department.
The Department of Health Sciences is an interdisci-
plinary department in the Faculty of Science at Car-
leton University, serving as the academic base for 17
full time and cross-appointed faculty members, >200
undergraduate students in the Bachelor of Health Sci-
ences, graduate students, and postdoctoral research
fellows associated with our Faculty. Health Sciences is
an interdisciplinary department that fosters academic
and research collaborations with other departments at
Carleton, and with external partners in health-related
elds including departments and organisations within
the Government of Canada, Government of Ontario, the
Institute of Clinical and Evaluative Sciences, and com-
munity organisations, hospitals and research institutes
in Ottawa, nationally and worldwide.
A distinctive strength of the Department is the interdis-
ciplinary approach to health problems and solutions, and
the collaborative nature of our Faculty to address these.
The Department is building core strengths in three clus-
ters of excellence: 1) Environment and Global Health,
2) Lifecourse Approach to Health and 3) Big Data. The
new Health Sciences Building, slated for opening July
2017, will be the home base for the Department, with
state-of-the-art infrastructure for both teaching and
research in these health areas and beyond. The Depart-
ment of Health Sciences and the Faculty of Science have
strong commitments to graduate and undergraduate
education and research experiences. More information
on Carleton's Department of Health Sciences can be
found at: https://carleton.ca/healthsciences/ . We are
seeking three senior research faculty, one in each of theJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 83
three clusters of excellence, and one who will become
Departmental Chair. Candidates' research should align
with one of these areas: 1) Environment and Global
Health: Environmental toxicology/pharmacology, can-
cer, global health of (re)emerging infectious diseases
or climate change. 2) Lifecourse Approach: Biological
mechanisms of ageing. A focus on mitochondrial biology,
reactive oxygen species and/or metabolism of ageing is
ideal. 3) Big Data: Bioinformatics and/or biostatistical
approaches to health in one of the clusters of excellence.
Qualications: Each candidate should have a demon-
strated record of success as an independent researcher
with an innovative and internationally-recognised re-
search programme, as proven by peer-reviewed publica-
tions and funding from CIHR or other nationally and/or
internationally-recognised funding agencies (e.g.: NIH,
BBSRC, MRC). They should also have demonstrated
excellence in teaching, including graduate supervision
at the doctoral level, and evidence of administrative
and leadership skills. The new Chair will be expected
to have exceptional interpersonal skills and serve as a
champion of the Department's research and education
initiatives, and to develop new academic and research
opportunities. Each of the successful candidates must
have a PhD and/or MD or equivalent and currently hold
the rank of Associate or Full Professor. The position
of Departmental Chair will be for a 3-year renewable
term.
Application instructions: Interested candidates should
submit a CV stating their anticipated Health Sciences
research cluster and detailing their experience in this
area, a teaching dossier including a statement of which
courses oered by the Department they would be in-
terested in teaching, and a statement of administrative
experiences and interests. Applicants with interest in
the Departmental Chair position should also submit a
statement of vision for the Department. Applications,
including cover letter, together with the names and con-
tact information of three referees, should be sent as a
single PDF to:
Dr. Robert Burk Chair, Department of Health Sciences,
Carleton University at: healthsciences@carleton.ca
Please indicate in your application if you are a Canadian
citizen or
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlCarnegieMuseumNatHist
ReaCuratorAmphibiansReptiles
Carnegie Museum of Natural History - William and In-
grid Rea Assistant Curator of Amphibians and Reptiles
Carnegie Museum of Natural History invites applica-
tions for the William and Ingrid Rea Assistant Curator
of Amphibians and Reptiles. Successful candidates for
this endowed position will have research interests in-
volving the systematics, evolutionary biology, ecology,
and/or conservation biology of amphibians and reptiles,
especially - but not limited to - investigating the con-
sequences of global change on amphibian and reptiles.
In addition to developing a strong research program,
additional responsibilities will include providing lead-
ership in the care, maintenance and improvement of
the collection and participation in the museum's educa-
tional programs, exhibitions, and other eorts of public
engagement.
Qualications: Ph.D. in some aspect of amphibian and
reptilian biology with a strong background in system-
atics. The successful candidate will also have a strong
record in grants, scientic publications, and science com-
munication. Postdoctoral training is strongly preferred.
The appointment is expected to be at the level of Assis-
tant Curator, although exceptional candidates at more
senior levels may be considered.
For additional information, please visit:
www.carnegiemuseums.org/hr and search \am-
phibians and reptiles". To apply, a letter of application,
CV, contact information for three references, statement
of research, and statement of curatorial philosophy
(including the curator's role in broader museum eorts)
should be emailed to halea@carnegiemnh.org. Review
of applications will begin February 1, 2017.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is one of the four
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, with a mission in orig-
inal scientic research, preservation of collections, and
public science education and engagement. The museum
has approximately 22 million specimens and artifacts
in its collections, including the 9th largest collection of
amphibians and reptiles in the US. With access to our
2,200-acre Powdermill Nature Reserve and the museum's
placement within blocks of six universities (including
two major research institutions: U. of Pittsburgh and
Carnegie Mellon U.), there is ample opportunity for col-84 EvolDir January 1, 2017
laboration and application of collections-based research
to current issues at the intersection of evolution, ecology,
conservation biology, and global change.
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh is rmly committed to
equal employment opportunity for all persons without
regard to race, color, religion, creed, national origin,
ancestry, sex, gender identity or expression, age, marital
status, sexual orientation, citizenship status, veteran
status, non job-related disability or genetic information
as those terms are dened under applicable law.
The information contained in this message and/or at-
tachments is intended only for the person or entity
to which it is addressed and may contain condential
and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission,
dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action
in reliance upon, this information by persons or entities
other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you
received this in error, please contact the sender and
delete the material from any system and destroy any
copies. Any views expressed in this message are those
of the individual sender.
\Hale, Alison" <HaleA@CarnegieMnh.Org >
CollegeOfCharleston
EvolutionaryMicrobialGenetics
Microbial Genetics
The Department of Biology at the College of Charleston
invites applications for a tenure-track position in Micro-
bial Genetics at the Assistant Professor level to begin
August 2017. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Biology
or a related eld and a strong commitment to teaching
and maintaining an active research program involving
undergraduates. The area of research is open to any
microbial system (eukaryotic, prokaryotic, viral) but
we are targeting a microbiologist who asks evolution-
ary or environmental questions and seek a colleague
interested in developing collaborations with existing
faculty (http://biology.cofc.edu/about-the-department/-
faculty-sta-listing/index.php). Primary teaching re-
sponsibilities include undergraduate courses in Genetics,
Microbiology, introductory biology and perhaps spe-
cialty courses in an area of expertise. The College of
Charleston, located in Charleston, SC, is a public liberal
arts and sciences institution of 12,000 students, with
MS programs in Marine Biology and Environmental
Studies, and a commitment to excellence in teachingand research. Information about the department is
available at http://biology.cofc.edu/ .Applicants should
submit electronic (pdf) copies of their curriculum vi-
tae, statements of teaching and research interests, up to
three relevant publications, and a list with names and
contact information for three referees, to the following
site: http://jobs.cofc.edu/postings/5577 .Questions re-
garding this position can be directed to Dr. Christine
Byrum, search committee chair, at byrumc@cofc.edu.
This is a nine-month appointment; salary is competitive
and commensurate with experience and qualications.
Review of applications will begin Dec 14, 2016 and will
continue until the position is lled. The College of
Charleston is an Armative Action, Equal Opportunity
Employer and does not discriminate against any individ-
ual or group on the basis of gender, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, age, race, color, religion,
national origin, veteran status, genetic information, or
disability.
\Rutter, Matt" <RutterM@cofc.edu >
HowardU VertebrateEvolution
*Assistant Professor of Neurobiology (tenure track)*
*and * *Assistant Professor of Anatomy (tenure track)*
*Description*
The Department of Biology in the College of Arts and
Sciences at Howard University invites applications for
two tenure-track positions at the rank of Assistant Pro-
fessor, one with specialization in neurobiology and the
other in comparative vertebrate anatomy. We seek out-
standing applicants with a demonstrated track record
of excellence in research and teaching.
*Qualications*
Successful candidates are expected to develop vigorous,
extramurally funded research programs in their areas
of expertise, actively participate in the Department's
teaching and curriculum development at the undergrad-
uate and graduate levels, and mentor undergraduate
and graduate students.
Candidates must have:
* Earned doctorate in Biology or related eld, with a
specialization in neurobiology or comparative vertebrate
anatomy from an accredited institution,
* Record of scholarship, teaching, and professional ser-
vice commensurate with the rank of assistant professor,January 1, 2017 EvolDir 85
* Eective communication and organizational skills, and
* Postdoctoral and grant-writing experience preferred.
*Application Process*
Complete applications consist of a single PDF le con-
taining
1) a cover letter addressing qualications listed above,
2) a current curriculum vitae,
3) a two-page statement of research accomplishments,
interests, and future plans,
4) a two-page statement of teaching experience and
philosophy, and
5) the names and contact information for at least three
references who will provide letters upon request from
the search committee.
Completed applications should be addressed to the Chair
of the search committee Dr. Franklin Ampy and emailed
to either:
*hubio.neuro@gmail.com <hubio.neuro@gmail.com >
*for the* neurobiology position*
*hubio.anat@gmail.com <hubio.anat@gmail.com >* for
the *comparative anatomy position.*
All application materials should be received by February
1, 2017 when screening will begin and continue until the
positions are lled.
The starting date for both positions is August 15, 2017.
Additional details and information can be
found at http://hubiosearch.wixsite.com/-
2017 . \kenneth.hayes@howard.edu"
<kenneth.hayes@howard.edu >
IndianaU BioinformaticAnalyst
POSTING: Working as a team member, supports ge-
nomics and other 'omics research at Indiana University
and for the national audience served by NSF-funded Na-
tional Center for Genome Analysis Support (NCGAS).
Independently consults with biologists and other life
science researchers undertaking computational analy-
ses of genomic, transcriptomic, metagenomic, or other
'omics data sets. Initiates installation and conguration
of analytical software packages; performs some program-
ming and scripting to develop software; and assists with
data management and transformations. Develops re-search workows; and directs assistance in executing
those analyses and workows on IU's High Performance
Computing systems. Assists with customer requests and
work queues, maintains task documentation, and makes
programming changes necessary for upgrades, releases
and customization.?
REQUIRED: Bachelor's degree in a life science such as
biology, microbiology, or biochemistry or in computer
science with a specialty in bioinformatics and two years
of professional technical experience in analyzing large
biological data set.
Combinations of related education and experience may
be considered.
Experience with the following: Perl, Python, UNIX shell
script, or similar scripting languages; and de novo and
reference-based genomics analysis. Experience work-
ing withDNA sequence data and analyses for genome
assembly, alignment, and annotation; and familiarity
with next generation sequencing, Unix/Linux operating
systems and one or more programming or scripting lan-
guages, and biological data management. An emphasis
is put on using existing software (not software develop-
ment) accepted by the research community. Therefore,
broad familiarity with currently available software and
ability to match applications to specic research needs,
and monitoring of emergent applications.
Excellent interpersonal, written and verbal communica-
tion skills including a customer service orientation and
ability to interact and communicate eectively with a
wide variety of individuals; and willingness and ability to
present at the national and international level. Proven
ability to work well as part of a team including ability
and willingness to work in a collaborative environment
where knowledge, code, and eort are shared among
colleagues including commitment to sharing knowledge
through documentation, communication and collabora-
tion. Demonstrated ability to cooperate and collaborate
on projects/operations with other sta while maintain-
ing a positive attitude toward project goals, and take
ownership of issues and assigned tasks. Possess a high
degree of self-initiative and commitment to expanding
skills and expertise through a variety of methods, in-
cluding self-study, working/mentoring with colleagues,
and through internal and external training.
PREFERRED: Experience in/with a DNA sequencing
laboratory and familiarity with the current state of the
art in 'omics-based life sciences research; experience
answering actual biological experimental questions with
'omic sequence sets, with genomic analysis; experience
with batch operated clusters or other high performance
computing platforms in a university environment.86 EvolDir January 1, 2017
FOR MORE INFO AND TO APPLY: https://-
iujobs.peopleadmin.com/postings/30425 Sheri Sanders
Bioinformatic Analyst National Center for Genome
Analysis and Support (NCGAS)
NCGAS is part of the Research Technologies division
of UITS; Research Technologies is a PTI Cyberinfras-
tructure & Service Center.
\Sanders, Sheri" <ss93@iu.edu >
Liverpool MosquitoBorneDisease
Due to our continuing expansion, we have identied a
number of key areas that oer exciting opportunities for
impact with tangible potential to shape global health
initiatives and deliver health improvement over the next
decade. If you have a reputation for excellent research
on the biology and/or control of arboviruses and their
vectors please get in touch with us. Candidates with
research programmes in evolutionary biology, genetics
or genomics are strongly encouraged.
The Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine continues to
lead in the worldwide ght against infectious diseases
working with partners in over 60 countries. Our research
reputation has secured funding to lead multiple interna-
tional consortia and product development partnerships
underpinning our translational research focus.
As part of our continuing expansion, we have identied
a number of key areas that oer exciting opportuni-
ties for impact with tangible potential to shape global
health initiatives and deliver health improvement over
the next decade. To support this development we wish
to strengthen the prole of LSTM in mosquito borne
disease through the appointment of a candidate with
an established excellent international reputation in this
discipline. We are particularly interested in candidates
with a reputation for excellent research on the biology
and/or control of arboviruses and their vectors.
The post holder will join the Faculty of Biological Sci-
ences which hosts the Departments of Vector Biology
and Parasitology and has a vibrant research portfolio
with particular research strengths in malaria, lariasis
and the Neglected Tropical Diseases. Our activities span
the full pipeline from discovery to implementation and
we work closely with national and global policy mak-
ing bodies to maximise research uptake. The faculty
has unparalleled facilities for working with vectors and
pathogens including category 3 containment facilities,a large suite of controlled insect rearing rooms plus
free ight rooms for behavioural studies. Our labora-
tories are also well equipped with analytical platforms
for molecular genetics, proteomics, metabolomics and
imaging.
The post is suitable for candidates with an international
reputation in mosquito borne diseases and a strong
research prole. Candidates will be expected to demon-
strate their track record in securing competitive funding
and publishing the outputs of their work and have a
clearly articulated research vision.
Click here (link is external)
< https://livtmli.webitrent.com/-
livtmli webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID%3d1175530PZz&WVID=
7667700AeE&LANG=USA >to apply http://-
www.lstmed.ac.uk/senior-lecturer-reader-mosquito-
borne-disease Closing Date for completed applications:
Thursday 5 January 2017
Martin James Donnelly
Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Department of Vec-
tor Biology Malaria Programme Liverpool School of
Tropical Medicine & Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Pembroke Place Hinxton Liverpool Cambridge L3 5QA
CB10 1SJ Tel +44(0) 151 705 3296 Fax +44(0) 151 705
3369 Email martin.donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk Web http:/-
/donnelly.openwetware.org/Home.html Skype martin-
donnelly; Orcid 0000-0001-5218-1497
Martin Donnelly <Martin.Donnelly@lstmed.ac.uk >
Lyon PopulationGenomics
Position: assistant professor, population genomics, Lyon
An assistant professor (maitre de conference) perma-
nent position will be available at LBBE (CNRS/Univ.
Lyon 1), a large institute in evolutionary biol-
ogy/ecology/human health with a special focus on
methodological research (https://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr).
We seek applicants whose research prole is population
genomics with a strong methodological emphasis. Ap-
plicants should conduct innovative work in population
genomics by both developing new methods and apply-
ing them to high-throughput data. We are open to
all research projects that could t in the topics of the
institute.
Teaching (mainly in French) will be related to biomath-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 87
ematics, bioinformatics and population genetics.
Lyon is one the main (and oldest) French cities, its city
center is a world heritage UNESCO site, it is ~2h from
the Alps (http://www.lyon-france.com/).
If interested, please contact Dominique Mouchiroud
(dominique.mouchiroud@univ-lyon1.fr, +33 4 72 43 26
28).
Gabriel Marais Directeur de Recherches, CNRS
Biom etrie et Biologie Evolutive - UMR 5558 Universit e
Claude Bernard - Lyon 1 Bat. Mendel, 16 rue R. Dubois
69622 Villeurbanne cedex, France
Tel: (+33) (0) 4 72 43 29 09 Mob: (+33) (0) 7 82 33 83
51 Fax: (+33) (0) 4 72 43 13 88
Email: Gabriel.Marais@univ-lyon1.fr Web site: http:/-
/lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Equipe-Sexe-et-Evolution-.html
Gabriel.Marais@univ-lyon1.fr
OregonStateU ResAssist
ConservationGenetics
Job: Research Assistant in the Conservation Genetics
of Marine and Freshwater Fishes
The O'Malley lab at Oregon State University is looking
to hire a highly motivated Research Assistant. The
individual will perform research and train students in in
the application of both genetic and genomic approaches
to address questions related to the ecological and popu-
lation genetics of marine and freshwater shes. We are
looking for an enthusiastic and responsible individual
to join our team. This will be a full time position. Pri-
mary responsibilities include: 1) Providing leadership
in research, 2) maintaining an ecient laboratory 3)
archiving tissue samples and associated phenotypic data
4) training students and visiting scholars in molecular
research techniques and 4) serving as the primary liai-
son to Oregon State University's Center for Genome
Research and Biocomputing.
For additional details and how to apply: http://-
jobs.oregonstate.edu/postings/35284 For questions,
please contact Dr. Kathleen O'Malley (Kath-
leen.omalley@oregonstate.edu)
Kathleen O'Malley, Associate Professor
Oregon State University, Hateld Marine Science Center
Coastal Oregon Marine Experiment Station2030 SE Marine Science Drive, Newport, Oregon 97365
ph: (541) 961-3311 fax: (541) 867-0345
http://people.oregonstate.edu/ ~ omalleyk/-
\O Malley, Kathleen Gallen"
<Kathleen.OMalley@oregonstate.edu >
StCloudStateU Minesota
ComputationalMicrobiol
The job title is 'computational microbiologist' and it
will be focused on the establishment and evolution of
microbial communities within an anaerobic digester.
It is not a tenure-track position, but it will allow for
contract extensions if the person chosen will be able to
secure more funds beyond the three years of the original
project.
The job is currently posted on Nature Jobs.
This is the link:
http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/jobs/-
600239-biology-computatio nal-microbiologist-xed-
term-non-probationary
Ryan Fink Biology- Computational Microbiologist,
Fixed-Term, Non-Probationary : St. Cloud, MN, United
States : Naturejobs www.nature.com Biology- Compu-
tational Microbiologist, Fixed-Term, Non-Probationary
- St. Cloud State University are looking for a Fac-
ulty Member - multiple/non-specic in St. Cloud, MN,
United States. Salary: unspecied, Hours: Full-time,
Type: Temporary
\Fink, Ryan C." <rcnk@stcloudstate.edu >
StockholmU PlantSystematics
Stockholm University seeks to appoint an Associate Pro-
fessor in Plant Systematics. Closing date: 10 February
2017
The position encompasses research and teaching within
the broad subject area of plant systematics, including
land plants, algae or fungi.
For a full job description and for how to apply see:88 EvolDir January 1, 2017
http://www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/vacancies-
new-list?rmpage=job&rmjob=2395&rmlang=UK
Contact: Further information about the position
can be obtained from the Head of the Department,
Professor Ove Eriksson, telephone: +46 8 16 12 04,
ove.eriksson@su.se.
For questions regarding the application process, please
contact administrator Mikael Stenberg, telephone: +46
8 16 20 86, mikael.stenberg@su.se. (In Swedish: http:/-
/www.su.se/om-oss/lediga-anst%C3%A4llningar/lediga-
jobb-ny-lista?rmpage=job&rmjob=2393&rmlang=SE)
Aelys Humphreys <aelyshumphreys@gmail.com >
Tanzania 12mnths
PrimateProjectManager
The position requires a command of evolutionary theory
and behaviour given the scope of our work, but it is a
project manager position, so lots else is required as well.
Position Description: The Ugalla Primate Project is
seeking a project manager, to be based in a remote
eld site in western Tanzania for 12 months. Respon-
sibilities include overall Project coordination, manage-
ment of data collection for multiple ongoing studies
(see website) at the research station, nance adminis-
tration, and schedule organization, among others. The
Project coordinator also makes regular trips to the lo-
cal village/town for supplies and frequently reports to
UPP administration concerning ongoing Project devel-
opments. Finally, s/he assists especially the logistics of
incoming collaborators/students, and often negotiates
complex relationships with government institutions and
local government ocials, e.g. Immigration.
If desired, the successful applicant may also conduct
an independent research project of his/her own design,
contingent on approval from UPP as well as Tanzanian
government research bodies.
Qualications: A successful candidate should have a
bachelor's degree in a related eld (evolutionary biology,
zoology, biological anthropology), with a strong com-
mand of evolutionary theory and behaviour, as well as
prior living or work experience in a developing country
(preferably in Africa), be extremely t, able to drive a
manual 4x4 vehicle, familiar with Microsoft Excel and
Word (GIS a plus), and willing to learn KiSwahili. Ad-
ditionally, the candidate must be responsible, organized,
independent, resourceful, and get along well and easilywith others, as the position requires long periods in the
forest with a team of Tanzanian eld assistants. The
landscape is demanding, and so extreme physical tness
is also critical. Previous experience with apes is sought,
but not necessary.
Duration: February 2017 - January 2018 (dates exible).
Compensation: USD300 per month, with in-country
& work-related expenses covered by the Project. Can-
didates must be prepared to pay international travel
and government research permits (USD2200) up front.
Travel and permit costs are reimbursed upon partial
completion of tenure.
Please see ugallaprimateproject.com for more on the
UPP.
Interested applicants should create a SINGLE .PDF
le that includes a cover letter, updated CV,
and the names of two references, emailed to
info@ugallaprimateproject.com. We are accepting ap-
plications until the position is lled.
\Piel, Alexander" <A.K.Piel@ljmu.ac.uk >
TelAvivU PlantEvolution
The School of Plant Sciences and Food Security at Tel
Aviv University is seeking excellent applicants to ll
a tenure track position at the levels of Assistant or
Associate Professor. Areas of interest include all as-
pects of plant biology including Plant physiology, Plant
ecophysiology, Plant ecology and evolution, Plant de-
velopment, Crop Sciences, Plant biotechnology, Plant
systems biology and other photosynthetic organisms.
Qualications for the position include PhD in biology or
related elds, postdoctoral research experience and pub-
lications describing original and outstanding research
achievements. The successful appointee is expected to
establish an internationally-recognized competitively-
funded research program to address contemporary and
emerging issues in plant biology. The appointee is ex-
pected to develop courses for undergraduate and grad-
uate levels and teach in both Hebrew and English, su-
pervise graduate students and postdoctoral fellows and
contribute to the development and operation of the
School, Faculty of Life Sciences and University.
Applications will be considered from October 1st (2016)
until the position is lled. Recruitment of the successful
candidate is expected by October 1st 2017. ApplicantsJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 89
should submit the following materials: 1) Curriculum
vitae including list of publications 2) Statement of re-
search plans 3) Statement of teaching interests and
philosophy 4) Names, addresses, including e-mails, of
four professional references.
Materials (combined in one PDF le) should be sent
by e-mail to Professor Hillel Fromm, Head, School of
Plant Sciences and Food Security, Tel Aviv University
(Hillelf@post.tau.ac.il).
Tel Aviv University is an equal opportunity employer.
Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
lilach.hadany@gmail.com
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryBiol
Full professor Population and Evolutionary Biology Fac-
ulty of Science - Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem
Dynamics
Level of education: PhD Salary indication: euro 5,260
to euro 7,659 gross per month Closing date: 11 February
2017 Hours: 38 hours per week Vacancy number: 16-593
The Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynam-
ics (IBED) is one of the eight research institutes of
the Faculty of Science at the University of Amsterdam.
IBED was founded in 2000 by merging research groups
with expertise in ecology, physical geography, environ-
mental microbiology and environmental chemistry. The
research at IBED aims to unravel how ecosystems func-
tion in all their complexity, and how they change due
to natural processes and human activities. At its core
lies an integrated systems approach to study biodiver-
sity, ecosystems and the environment. IBED adopts
this systems approach to ecosystems, addressing abiotic
(soil and water quality) and biotic factors (presence,
population dynamics and functioning of plants, animals,
microbes), and the interplay between these ecosystem
components. The IBED vision includes that research
encompasses experimental and theoretical approaches
at a wide variety of temporal and spatial scales, i.e.
from microbes and individual behaviour to patterns and
processes occurring at landscape scale. IBED oers
advanced and up-to-date research facilities, such as a
greenhouse, growth chambers, an electrophysiological
lab, a molecular lab, an analytical chemistry lab, a
soil erosion lab, a GIS studio, and high-performance
computing facilities.
IBED is in search of a new full professor for the depart-ment of Population and Evolutionary Biology (PEB).
We are looking for a scientist who has the ambition to
lead a diverse research group. Someone who inspires
the PEB team, represents the group and increases the
international academic visibility of PEB. Someone who
has a talent for, and a clear vision on university teaching
and research. We welcome a candidate who brings in
new approaches, research skills or model systems.
The department of Population and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Research of the new department of Population and
Evolutionary Biology aims at improved understanding
of how interactions between individuals and their bi-
otic and abiotic environment aect population dynamics
and evolutionary processes, which ultimately determine
speciation and biodiversity patterns. Research is in-
tegrative, combining insights from population ecology,
community ecology, and evolutionary biology. The Pop-
ulation and Evolutionary Biology department also per-
forms applied research on questions relevant for society.
At present, the department of Population and Evolu-
tionary Biology consists of 10 permanent academic sta
members, 10 Postdocs,18 PhD students and 4 techni-
cal sta. The department plays an important role in
teaching and coordinates a wide range of BSc and MSc
courses. The department will comprise the three cur-
rent chair groups of Population Biology, Evolutionary
Biology and Experimental Plant Systematics.
Current research of PEB is organized along 4 lines: -
chemical and molecular basis of adaptation and speci-
ation; - adaptive intraspecic variation in exploitation
strategies of herbivores and predators; - direct and in-
direct interactions among plants, predators and prey; -
biodiversity and conservation.
Members of the department of Population and Evo-
lutionary Biology collaborate extensively with other
research groups within IBED. Within the University
of Amsterdam, we work together with colleagues from
the Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences and the
Center for Research in Experimental Economics and
Political Decision Making. The department of Popula-
tion and Evolutionary Biology also collaborates with
many other national and international institutes and
non-academic stakeholders. In particular, we focus on
increased collaboration with the related department of
Animal Ecology of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
Together, these two groups aim to become a leading
center for evolutionary and ecological research.
Job description The new full professor will chair the
department of Population and Evolutionary Biology,
will develop her/his own research program, and will
contribute to the teaching program. The full professor90 EvolDir January 1, 2017
will foster a coherent research prole of the department,
will represent the department inside and outside the
university, and will mentor and guide the department
members in their scientic career development.
Tasks are: - to chair the department of Population and
Evolutionary Biology; - to develop and contribute to
courses in particular within the BSc and MSc curricula
Biology, Psychobiology, Bio-medical Sciences and Fu-
ture Planet Studies; - to strengthen the existing research
lines by bringing in new ideas, skills and innovative re-
search approaches; - to develop her/his own research
within the research domain of the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBristol 4 EvolutionaryBiol
Three Lecturer/Senior Lecturer Positions, and one
Teaching Fellow position available in the School of Bio-
logical Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.
We seek at least three new Lecturers and Senior Lec-
turers across all biological disciplines, but especially in
Animal Behaviour and in Behavioural Ecology, with
broad-scale approaches using genomics, neuroscience
and mathematical modelling, and linking to global envi-
ronmental challenges.
We are also looking for applications from a broad array
of integrative biological disciplines, including metage-
nomics, epigenetics, phylogenomics, comparative phylo-
genetics, bio-engineering, and next generation molecular
ecology.
We also seek a Teaching Fellow, to provide innova-
tion and guidance in the development of our ambi-
tious undergraduate teaching programmes in Biology
and in Zoology. The candidate will have experience in
student-focused learning and in introducing innovative
approaches to engage large numbers of students in the
intellectual and practical challenges of a research-led
teaching programme.
The School of Biological Sciences is entering an exciting
new phase of development. It moved into the state-of-
the-art Life Sciences Building in 2014, which provides
extensive laboratory and teaching facilities.The new building also provides novel opportunities for
collaborations with colleagues in other disciplines now lo-
cated In the new building, particularly Earth Scientists.
In 2018, the School will also become a core component
of the new Faculty of Life Sciences.
The University of Bristol encourages cross Fac-
ulty interactions through various Research In-
stitutes, including the Cabot Institute (http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/cabot/), the Elizabeth Blackwell In-
stitute (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/blackwell/) For more
details of the jobs and how to apply please see
Three PW1 lectureships: http://tinyurl.com/hddjvqg
Teaching Fellow (PW3): http://tinyurl.com/zsq2tck
See http://www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/ and http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/research/ for more details of the
School and our research.
The closing date for all applications is 4th January 2017
Dr Jon Bridle School of Biological Sciences
2A03, Life Sciences Building University of Bris-
tol, BS8 1TQ Tel. (+44) 117 394 1174 (in-
ternal 41174) jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/people/jon-r-bridle/ Jon
Bridle <Jon.Bridle@bristol.ac.uk >
UCalifornia Davis
WildlifeConservation
Job Title: Sta Research Associate II-Wildlife genetics
laboratory tech
Dept: VGL
Job Description:
The UC Davis Mammalian Ecology and Conservation
Unit is seeking a highly motivated person to ll a posi-
tion as a molecular genetics laboratory tech (university
title: Sta Research Associate II) to assist with re-
search in Ben Sacks's laboratory. Research in the Sacks
lab focuses on evolution, ecology, phylogeography, and
conservation genetics of wild mammals and other verte-
brates. We use both molecular-genetic and eld-based
approaches in our research. Laboratory facilities include
modern and ancient DNA units. Additional details
about ongoing projects can be found on the lab website
(http://http://www.vgl.ucdavis.edu/cdcg/home.php)
The SRA-II will assist principal investigator, post-
doctoral scholars, and graduate students in ongoing
research projects by conducting basic molecular genet-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 91
ics lab work and will help recruit, train, and supervise
undergraduate interns. Laboratory activities include
DNA extractions, PCR, gel electrophoresis, microsatel-
lite genotyping, sequencing, cloning, next generation
sequencing library preparation, database entry and man-
agement, maintaining laboratory supplies/ equipment,
ensuring compliance with laboratory safety regulations,
and training students and interns.
Minimum Qualications: Bachelor's Degree in an ap-
propriate eld such as Molecular Biology, Genetics, or
Wildlife Biology, along with 1-2 years research expe-
rience that included performing DNA extractions and
PCR, and routine use of basic computer software. Ex-
perience with microsatellite genotyping and/or DNA
sequencing is required. Preference will be given to ap-
plicants with experience in ecological or evolutionary
biology. This position will extend under the SRA-II title
for 5 months with possibility to convert to a longer-term
position under a dierent title.
Qualied candidates should submit (via email) a letter
of application
describing qualications for the position and reason for
interest,
CV, and contact information for (or letters from) three
references who can detail your relevant experience to
bnsacks@ucdavis.edu
Annual salary rate: $45,760. Starting Date: When lled.
Final Filing Date: December 16, 2016 Interviews may
be conducted before the closing date; however, no hiring
decision will be made until after that date.
Number of Positions: 1
Ben Sacks
Veterinary Genetics Laboratory
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue/Old Davis Rd.
Davis, California 95616-8744 USA
Phone: 530-754-9088 bnsacks@ucdavis.edu
The University of California, Davis is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer.
\Benjamin N. Sacks" <bnsacks@UCDAVIS.EDU >UCanterbury NZ Genomics
https://www.seek.co.nz/job/32418493 Applications are
invited for the continuing position of Lecturer/Senior
Lecturer/Associate Professor in Genomics in the School
of Biological Sciences. [Lecturer is equivalent to a
(tenured) Assistant Professor in the US system; Senior
Lecturer is equivalent to a recently tenured Associate
Professor in the US system; Associate Professor is a
more senior position equivalent to a Reader in the UK
system and a senior Associate Professor in the US sys-
tem].
We seek an ambitious early-career colleague in the molec-
ular biosciences who will apply modern approaches and
augment our existing strengths. The successful appli-
cant will be capable eective research and teaching, and
be broadly trained in genomics/bioinformatics with asso-
ciated laboratory and analytical skills. For the context
of their research, they will be motivated to address fun-
damental questions in at least one of the following sub-
themes - synthetic/structural biology, cell/molecular
biology, genetics, physiology or evolution. It is expected
that the successful candidate will establish an externally
funded research programme. They will also develop re-
search linkages with research institutes and/or industry
groups, and participate in undergraduate and postgrad-
uate supervision and teaching.
Applicants should have a PhD or an appropriate equiv-
alent qualication in biological sciences, an ability and
willingness to deliver high quality teaching in molecu-
lar and evolutionary biology, and a commitment to do
world-class research in an area complementary to current
strengths within the School of Biological Sciences.
The successful applicant will demonstrate potential for
academic excellence in teaching and research, be able to
conduct innovative and eective lectures and laboratory
classes from rst year through postgraduate level, pub-
lish research at a high level as assessed by peer-reviewed
publications, and, where appropriate, demonstrate im-
pacts for community stakeholders. We are looking for
an adaptable colleague who can work with others to em-
brace opportunities that contribute to our core mission.
The School of Biological Sciences has a high national and
international prole and has an excellent teaching and
research infrastructure, including multiple eld stations
in alpine, lowland and coastal habitats, and new research
facilities. We have well-established research programmes92 EvolDir January 1, 2017
from molecular to whole-organism and ecological scales,
as exemplied in the Biomolecular Interaction Centre
(http://www.bic.canterbury.ac.nz/) and the Centre for
Integrative Ecology (http://www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz/-
cie/). We have strong linkages with other research insti-
tutes. For more information on the School of Biological
Sciences see the webpage www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz .
The University of Canterbury is committed to promot-
ing a world-class learning environment through research
and teaching excellence, and has a vision statement of
Tangata Tu, Tangata Ora ('People Prepared to Make
a Dierence'). You will have the opportunity to work
alongside members of a diverse academic community and
enrich your own professional and personal development.
Equal opportunity in employment is University policy
and the School is strongly committed to equality in
the workplace. Applications from all suitably qualied
persons are encouraged. The University of Canterbury
oers generous leave provisions, including sabbatical
and Erskine Fellowship leave. It also has excellent child-
care, recreation and sta/graduates club facilities on
campus.
For information about the range of benets in joining UC
please visit us online at: http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/-
joinus The closing date for this position is: 22 January,
2017.
Interviews for this vacancy are anticipated to take place
in March, 2017.
The position will be available from 1 June 2017, although
the start date is exible.
Applications for this position should include a completed
University of Canterbury application form, a curriculum
vitae, a summary of recent research achievements and a
1-2 page research proposal outlining intended research
and research goals. Applicants are also expected to
indicate their teaching experience and philosophy and
to indicate the ways they could contribute to courses
within the School and to curriculum development in
the future. They should also indicate the names and
contact details of three referees. Applications should be
combined into one document and submitted online.
Should you wish to e-mail any additional attachments or
have queries in relation to the application process, please
forward these to Nikki Gibbs, Recruitment Coordinator,
nikki.gibbs@canterbury.ac.nz
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUCollegeLondon HumanGenetics
ComputationalBiol
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer (Assistant/Associate Profes-
sor) in Human Genetics and Computational Biology (2
posts) University College London Department of Genet-
ics, Evolution and Environment UCL Genetics Institute
The appointment will be full time on UCL Grade 8/9.
The salary range will be 42,304 - 49,904 per annum
(Grade 8): 54,240 - 58,978 per annum (Grade 9), inclu-
sive of London Allowance.
The UCL Genetics Institute (UGI) is an internationally
leading centrefor research and teaching in genetics and
genomics. It is part of the Research Department of
Genetics, Evolution and Environment (GEE), within
the Division of Biosciences. The remit of UGI is to
extract biological and medical knowledge from big data
in the eld of life sciences. https://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
biosciences/departments/gee https://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
ugi Two lectureships are currently available, one in
Human Genetics, and the second in Computational Bi-
ology. Appointment to one of these 2 posts may be
made at Senior Lecturer (Grade 9) level.
For the post in Human Genetics, the post holder will
establish and develop independent and collaborative re-
search programmes with an emphasis on big data. This
could be in the areas of chronic or infectious human
diseases, human microbiome metagenomics, epigenetics,
genetic epidemiology, human population history or other
related elds.
For the post in Computational Biology, the post holder
will establish and develop independent and collabora-
tive research programmes with an emphasis on big data
genomics. This could be in the area of statistical genet-
ics, population genetics, phylogenetics, bioinformatics
or systems biology, with some aspects of the research
relevant to human health and disease.
The successful candidates will hold a PhD in a relevant
subject area and demonstrate an outstanding contri-
bution to the body of knowledge and an international
research prole with commensurate, sustained research
to the discipline. For appointment at Senior Lecturer
level, the successful candidate must demonstrate an
international research prole with substantial seminal
contributions to knowledge or other outcomes appropri-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 93
ate to the discipline, and evidence of academic leader-
ship and a proven ability to lead, develop and motivate
colleagues.
For further details about the vacancy and how to ap-
ply online please go to http://www.ucl.ac.uk/hr/jobs/
and search on Reference Number 1616805 (direct link:
http://goo.gl/q2gfb4)
Please clearly specify under which specialism you are
applying by identifying your application as either
1616805/HG or 1616805/CB.
For informal queries about the posts, please contact
Professor Francois Balloux, f.balloux@ucl.ac.uk.
If you have any queries regarding the application pro-
cess, please contact the Biosciences Stang Team, bio-
sciences.stang@ucl.ac.uk.
Closing Date: 31 January 2017. Latest time for the sub-
mission of applications: 23:59. Interview Date: TBC.
We particularly welcome female applicants and those
from an ethnic minority, as they are under-represented
within UCL at this level.
\Pomiankowski, Andrew" <a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk >
UFlorida FacultyResSci
ButteryMothGenomics
The Kawahara Lab at University of Florida is hiring a
full-time, fully-benetted, Assistant Research Scientist
faculty.
The primary duty of the researcher will be to help the
PI and his team coordinate various projects and ana-
lyze data pertaining to research on the evolution and
genomics of butteries and moths. While the position is
a faculty position, it is non-tenure track, and the chosen
candidate will not be required to meet standard tenure
requirements. This is a full-time, permanent position.
Required: 1) A Ph.D. in molecular evolution, system-
atics, evolution, bioinformatics, genomics, or related
eld. 2) Familiarity with Next Generation Sequenc-
ing, computer programming/scripting in Python, Perl,
Java, C++, R or other language. 3) Strong orga-
nizational skills and ability to work with colleagues,
and help run a lab. Candidates with experience in
functional/comparative genomics, genome annotation,
and/or phylogenomics will be highly considered. An
interest in insect evolution, strong publication record,and some lab management experience is desired.
The research scientist will join the Florida Museum of
Natural History (FLMNH), located on the University of
Florida campus. The department is one of the largest
university museums in the US, and a leading department
in the eld of biodiversity science research.
Salary: $50,000 USD plus benets.
The lab's website can be found at: http://-
www.mnh.u.edu/mcguire/kawahara/ To apply, visit:
http://explore.jobs.u.edu/cw/en-us/job/500646/-
assistant-scientist-lepidoptera Application deadline:
Jan. 15, 2017 (11:59 pm, US EST time)
Any questions should be addressed to Akito Kawahara
at kawahara@mnh.u.edu
{ Akito Y. Kawahara Assistant Curator/Assistant Profes-
sor Florida Museum of Natural History McGuire Center
for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity University of Florida
3215 Hull Road Gainesville, FL 32611 USA 352.273.2018
kawahara@mnh.u.edu
kawahara@mnh.u.edu
UGroningen 10 EvolutionaryBiology
Jobs at Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sci-
ences (GELIFES)
Evolutionary Ecology of Marine Animals 5 in Evolution-
ary Life Sciences 2 in Evolutionary Medicine Chronobi-
ology Microbial Ecology and Evolution
|{
Tenure track assistant or associate professor in Evolu-
tionary Ecology of Marine Animals
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES) was established in 2015 and is the largest
institute of the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences (FMNS) of the University of Groningen.
GELIFES lls a special niche in the life sciences by
covering and integrating mechanistic, evolutionary and
ecological approaches. GELIFES' main aim is to inte-
grate proximate and ultimate approaches in the Life
Sciences. This strategy generates better understanding
of fundamental biological processes and contributes to
the solution of societal problems. Our research elds
include behavioural biology, chronobiology, ecology and
conservation biology, evolutionary biology, genetics and
genomics, neurobiology, physiology and theoretical biol-94 EvolDir January 1, 2017
ogy, using a wide array of research tools from molecular,
through the whole organism, to population and com-
munity level, under laboratory, semi-natural and eld
conditions. We study a wide array of species, from
microbes, algae, plants and insects to vertebrates such
as sh, birds, rodents, marine mammals and humans.
Our institute is the driving force of the Adaptive Life
Programme, one of four integrative focus research areas
of the FMNS.
To further strengthen Adaptive Life, the University of
Groningen and FMNS enabled us to hire for 5 new fac-
ulty and 25 PhD scholarship positions, as well as to
invest in large scale new facilities. This support also fa-
cilitated the establishment of the Sustainable Landscape
Competence Centre and the Brain and Behavioural Com-
petence Centre, in order to attract external research
funds and further organize our outreach.
GELIFES has a vacancy for a tenure track assistant or
associate professor in Evolutionary Ecology of Marine
Animals
Candidates are expected to set up an independent re-
search line within this eld, complementary to ongoing
research of the institute. The candidate is expected to
have an interest in strengthening the research program
and faculty theme called Adaptive Life in which bio-
logical adaptation is studied by integrating mechanistic
with evolutionary approaches. Candidates are expected
to attract funding for new PhD projects and attain a
leading international position in the eld. They are
excellent teachers who can attract students of dierent
disciplines and have an interest in teaching at both the
bachelor, master and PhD level.
Research on larger marine animal species that provide
opportunities for collaboration not only with ecologists
or evolutionary biologists of the institute but also with
its behavioural physiologists / neurobiologists is appre-
ciated but not a requirement.
The Netherlands border both the North Sea and the
Wadden Sea, the latter being relatively close to the
university. Research in the North Sea and Wadden
Sea currently provides good funding opportunities and
contributes to the regional impact of our university,
but researchers working on other ecosystems are also
encouraged to apply.
The University of Groningen has adopted an active pol-
icy to increase the number of female scientists across
all disciplines of the university. Therefore, female candi-
dates are especially encouraged to apply.
For more information on this position, qualications
and conditions of employment, please check the vacancy
website: http://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-with-us/-job-opportunities/overview. The deadline for applica-
tion is January 25th 2017.
For more information on GELIFES, its sta and
research, please visit: http://www.rug.nl/research/-
gelifes/ For more information on the Adaptive Life
Programme, please visit: http://www.rug.nl/research/-
fmns/themes/adaptive-life/ |{
The University of Groningen oers 5 Tenure Track As-
sistant or Associate Professor positions in Evolutionary
Life Sciences
The Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences
(GELIFES) was established in 2015 and is the largest
institute of the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences (FMNS) of the University of Groningen.
GELIFES lls a special niche in the life sciences by
covering and integrating mechanistic, evolutionary and
ecological approaches. GELIFES' main aim is to inte-
grate proximate and ultimate approaches in the Life
Sciences. This strategy generates better understanding
of fundamental biological processes and contributes to
the solution of societal problems. Our research elds
include behavioural biology, chronobiology, ecology and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHohenheim
CropQuantitativeGenomics
The Faculty of Agricultural Sciences invites applications
for the position of a
FULL PROFESSOR (W3) OF QUANTITATIVE GE-
NETICS AND GENOMICS OF CROPS
at the Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed Science and
Population Genetics to be lled in the winter semester
2017/2018.
The successful candidate will teach Quantitative Genet-
ics and Genomics of Crops and its application in plant
breeding in the study programs Crop Sciences, Environ-
mental Protection and Agricultural Food Production,
and Agricultural Sciences in the Tropics and Subtropics
both in German and in English.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 95
The successful candidate is expected to conduct inno-
vative research in the investigation and modeling of
quantitative genetic variation with a focus on crops.
Possible research topics include genotype x environment
interactions and yield stability, adaptation to dierent
forms of biotic and abiotic stress, cultivation under low
vs. high-input regimes or the quantitative genetics of
yield components. Methodological approaches should
combine current statistical and quantitative genetics
approaches with genome analysis technologies, and/or
phenotyping in laboratory experiments or eld trials.
The successful candidate is expected to cooperate with
other groups as well with the interdisciplinary research
centers of the University of Hohenheim and to partici-
pate in the Regional Research Alliance \Yield stability
in dynamic environments", which is a network of plant
researchers at the University of Hohenheim, the Uni-
versity of T ubingen and the Max-Planck-Institute of
Developmenta l Biology.
The position oers attractive conditions for rst-time
full professor appointees. Prerequisites for applicants
are habilitation or an equivalent research and teaching
record that may have been established during a Junior
or Assistant Professorship.
The advertised position is tenured. If appointed as full
professor for the rst time, the University of Hohenheim
reserves its right to probationary employment. With
equal qualications, preference will be given to candi-
dates with disabilities.
The University of Hohenheim seeks to increase the pro-
portion of women in research and teaching, and strongly
encourages female scientists to apply.
Application deadline: 12.01.2017
Please attach the following documents to your applica-
tion: a statement of your future research interests, a
curriculum vitae, a documentation of academic achieve-
ments (copies), a list of publications, a list of third-party
funded projects, a teaching record, information on teach-
ing evaluations as well as education certicates.
Link to the job description and application portal:
http://uhoh.de/w3quantgen Dr. Karl Schmid Pro-
fessor of Crop Biodiversity and Breeding Informat-
ics Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed Science and
Population Genetics (350) University of Hohenheim
Fruwirthstrasse 21, D-70599 Stuttgart Tel: +49 711
459-23487 Email: karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de Web:
evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de
karl.schmid@gmail.comUKonstanz AquaticGenomics
The Department of Biology of the Faculty of Sciences
seeks to ll the W1 - Junior Professorship of Environ-
mental Genomics in Aquatic Systems from October
2017.
Applicants should be internationally recognized in the
eld of Environmental Genomics in Aquatic Systems.
The ideal candidate is supposed to perform research on
the response of aquatic communities to environmental
change involving the characterization of environmental
DNA of eukaryotes in water and sediment samples, and
should have excellent bio-informatics skills. The Ju-
nior Professor is expected to contribute to the Research
Training Group \R3 - Responses to biotic and abiotic
changes, Resilience and Reversibility of lake ecosystems".
The Junior Professor will be oered to participate in sev-
eral projects of this RTG and to become a member of the
corresponding PhD advisory committees thus receiving
immediate support by doctoral researchers. In paral-
lel, we expect the candidate to develop her/his own
research ideas in an environment of interdisciplinary
research with excellent opportunities of cooperation.
Teaching duties include participation in the local BSc
and MSc programs of the Department of Biology.
The University of Konstanz encourages disabled persons
to apply. They will be given preference if appropriately
qualied (contact + 49 (0) 7531 / 88 - 4016 und 88 -
2834).
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer that tries to increase the number of women in
research and teaching.
The University of Konstanz has been certied as a
family-friendly institution by the Hertie Foundation
and is committed to further the compatibility of work
and family life.
The University of Konstanz maintains a \Dual Career
Program". Information can be obtained at: http:/-
/www.uni-konstanz.de/dcc All application materials
(curriculum vitae, publication list, a list of grants and
awards, details of teaching experience, as well as state-
ments of current research topics, future research direc-
tions and interests) should be sent including reference
number 2016/251 as one pdf le and in English to Prof-
2016-251@uni-konstanz.de until 8 January 2017. Fur-
ther information is available on the homepage of the96 EvolDir January 1, 2017
University (http://www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen) or by
contacting Prof. Frank Peeters. (Frank.Peeters@uni-
konstanz.de).
Mark van Kleunen <mark.vankleunen@uni-
konstanz.de >
ULiverpool 3 EvolBiol
Three positions are available in the Institute of Integra-
tive Biology at University of Liverpool. Two of these
are in the area of genomics and would be suitable for
candidates in evolutionary, population or statistical ge-
nomics.
The University of Liverpool, which is ranked in the top
1% of higher education institutions in the world, is an
institution with global reach whose activities are rooted
in world-leading research excellence. The Institute of In-
tegrative Biology (IIB) is one of the 5 research-focused
Institutes within the Faculty of Health and Life Sci-
ences and lies at the heart of a thriving biomedical
science campus in Liverpool. The Institute ^A1s scien-
tists deliver ground-breaking research which spans the
complete range of biological scales from genes and ge-
netic regulation through to proteins, post-translational
modication and cellular function to whole organisms,
populations and ecosystems. The Institute houses state-
of-the-art 'omics' facilities and groups working in IIB are
applying these technologies to generate large data-sets
both within and across these scales and develop new
mathematical and computational models to fully exploit
these data.
The IIB is now seeking to appoint to three posts within
the institute: 1. Head of the Department of Functional
and Comparative Genomics (http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/AVC567/head-of-department-of-functional-and-
comp arative-genomics/) 2. Chair/Reader/Senior
Lecturer in Genomics/Genome Engineering (http://-
www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AVO868/chair-reader-senior-
lecturer-in-genomics- genome-engineering/) 3.
Chair/Reader/Senior Lecturer in metabolomics
(due to be posted shortly)
These openings present opportunities to pursue research
interest in a very collegial environment that oers re-
search excellence, underpinned by world-leading research
infrastructure. We are looking for individuals who
demonstrate innovation and leadership, combined with a
strong ability to lead on collaborations, both within the
IIB and with relevant colleagues elsewhere in the uni-versity. Applications should be made online. Informal
enquiries can be directed as indicated in the respective
job postings.
{ Prof Steve Paterson Institute of Integrative Biology
University of Liverpool Liverpool, L69 7ZB, UK Tel
+44 151 795 4521 Fax +44 151 795 4408 Mob +44 797
024 7668 s.paterson@liv.ac.uk http://www.liv.ac.uk/-
genomic-research/ hwitter: @scottishwormboy
UOklahoma
ComputationalMicrobiol
University of Oklahoma's Laboratories for Molecular An-
thropology and Microbiome Research (LMAMR.ORG)
is seeking an Assistant Research Professor. LMAMR
is a NIH and NSF funded leader in anthropologically
focused microbiome research. The position requires
PhD Degree and ve years of experience in bioinfor-
matic and/or computational approaches, with experi-
ence working with metagenomic data. Experience with
programming and shell scripting languages Perl, Python
and/or R is required, with the addition of C or C++
preferred. The Research Professor's primary eort will
be working within currently funded projects that study
human microbiome variation; there will be opportunities
for independently lead research and teaching, if desired.
Start date: Position open until lled, initial application
review on January 31st, 2017
Inquiries and applications (CV and three references)
directed to Dr. Cecil M. Lewis (cmlewis AT ou.edu)
with \Assistant Research Professor jAdjunct Lecturer"
in the subject line.
OU is a Carnegie Very High Research institution that
comprises three campuses. The University was estab-
lished in 1890 and enrolls over 30,000 students and more
than 2600 full time faculty. It ranks rst among all
universities in the number of National Merit Scholars
enrolled and has developed an award-winning Research
Campus, contiguous to the Main Campus, that houses
more than a dozen private companies, several Federal
agencies, and numerous research programs in a unique
synergistic ecosystem. More than a million square feet
of new, fully-occupied space now exists on the Research
Campus, with the latest additions including a Radar
Innovations Laboratory, Life Sciences Complex, and an
Innovation Hub that will open in about a year. Norman,
with a population of 110,000 has a vibrant arts commu-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 97
nity with outstanding public schools and a variety of
recreational resources. It was ranked #6 among the best
places to live by CNN/Money Magazine on America's
best small cities.
Located in Norman, Oklahoma, University of Okla-
homa's Laboratories for Molecular Anthropology and
Microbiome Research (LMAMR.ORG) specializes in
anthropological genomics and metagenomics. Current
projects include characterizing the ancestral state of
the human metagenomics using extraordinary biological
samples from traditional indigenous communities, non-
human primates, and archaeological \ancient" materials.
Our labs are located in the SRTC (http://srtc.ou.edu/-
index.php), a newer building with several research
groups working in environmental genomics (e.g., http:/-
/ieg.ou.edu/). Our building also houses part of OSCER,
OU's supercomputer (http://www.oscer.ou.edu/). This
broad, multidisciplinary research and education consor-
tium is well situated on OU's award winning Research
Campus (http://urc.ou.edu/video).
The University of Oklahoma is an Equal Opportunity
Employer. Protected veterans and individuals with dis-
abilities are encouraged to apply.
\cmlewis@ou.edu" <cmlewis@ou.edu >
UOregon ResAsst
EvolutionHost-Microbe
Research Assistant-Lab Manager http://-
careers.uoregon.edu/cw/en-us/job/519408/research-
assistantlab-manager Department: Institute of Ecology
and Evolution Rank: Research Assistant Annual Basis:
12 Month
Review of Applications Begins December 19, 2016; posi-
tion open until lled
Special Instructions to Applicants Please apply online,
providing resume or CV and a brief letter detailing
your research background and interest in this position.
Please include contact information for three professional
references.
Department Summary The Barber lab is recently estab-
lished at the University of Oregon Institute of Ecology
and Evolution.
Current research applies molecular, biochemical, and ge-
netic approaches to study the evolution of host-microbe
interactions. Project areas include: - how evolutionof host proteins impacts immunity against pathogenic
bacteria - how bacteria adapt to survive within animal
hosts - mechanisms by which new biochemical functions
emerge in microbes and their hosts.
More information is available on our website at evolu-
tionarypath.org.
Position Summary The Research Assistant-Lab Manager
position requires an individual who is self-motivated and
has excellent organizational skills to oversee daily op-
erations of the lab and participate in new and ongoing
research in the lab.
Key Duties include:
- Creation and/or maintenance of lab databases and orga-
nizational systems - Conducting research under direction
of the laboratory head, including overseeing day-to-day
laboratory operations, supervising undergraduate re-
searchers, ordering reagents and supplies, and assisting
with graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. - De-
veloping and advancing an independent research project
with the laboratory head and collaborating researchers
Minimum Requirements Qualied candidates will have
a bachelor's degree in Biology, Chemistry, or a related
eld from an accredited institution and relevant research
and laboratory management experience.
Preferred Qualications
Master's degree with experience in molecular biology,
biochemistry, genetics, genomics, microbiology or cell
culture techniques.
The University of Oregon is proud to oer a robust
benets package to eligible employees, including health
insurance, retirement plans and paid time o. For more
information about benets, visit http://hr.uoregon.edu/-
careers/about-benets . The University of Oregon is an
equal opportunity, armative action institution commit-
ted to cultural diversity and compliance with the ADA.
The University encourages all qualied individuals to
apply, and does not discriminate on the basis of any
protected status, including veteran and disability status.
UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color,
sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital sta-
tus, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender
identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities
and employment practices as required by Title IX, other
applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited
by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title
IX Coordinator, Oce of Armative Action and Equal
Opportunity, or to the Oce for Civil Rights. Contact
information, related policies, and complaint procedures
are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.
In compliance with federal law, the University of Ore-98 EvolDir January 1, 2017
gon prepares an annual report on campus security and
re safety programs and services. The Annual Cam-
pus Security and Fire Safety Report is available online
at http://police.uoregon.edu/annual-report . { INSTI-
TUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION, UNIVER-
SITY OF OREGON 5289 University of Oregon, Eugene
OR 97403-5289 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA
institution committed to cultural diversity. The Univer-
sity encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and
does not discriminate on the basis of any protected
status, including veteran and disability status.
\ie2jobs@uoregon.edu" <ie2jobs@uoregon.edu >
USalzburg EvolutionaryBiol
GZ B 00/1-2016
Applications are invited for the position of
Full Professor of \Evolutionary Biology of Animals"
in the Dept. Ecology & Evolution at the Paris-Lodron
University Salzburg, Austria. The desired starting date
is 01 Oct. 2017.
We seek an innovative scientist with an outstanding
track record in research and experience in academic
teaching to ll the professorship of \Evolutionary Bi-
ology of Animals" at the Dept. Ecology & Evolution
(http://www.uni-salzburg.at/ecoevo). The successful
candidate must have demonstrated a well-established
expertise in evolutionary biology and is expected to
combine experimental laboratory and eld approaches.
The candidate's research should cover aspects of meta-
zoan evolution with a focus on genotypic and/or pheno-
typic adaptation of species or species groups (individ-
uals/populations/communities) to long-term or short-
term environmental changes. Internationally recognized
expertise in research areas such as population genet-
ics/genomics, evolutionary ecology, adaptive trait evo-
lution, speciation, and/or coevolution and the applica-
tion of state-of-the-art methods (e.g., next generation
sequencing, transcriptomics) are expected. The univer-
sity's geographic location oers excellent opportunities
for researchers particularly interested in alpine environ-
ments.
The appointee will be teaching the entire range of ani-
mal evolutionary biology and diversity for the univer-
sity's Bachelor \Biology" curriculum, the recently im-
plemented Master \Biology/Ecology & Evolution" cur-
riculum, the Teachers' Education Program, and theDoctoral Studies program, including the university's
newly established Doctorate Schools. Teaching and
evaluating students in both German and English will
be required.
The new professorship will complement the existing re-
search priorities of the Dept. Ecology & Evolution and
further strengthen its scientic prole. Cooperation with
researchers from the other biological departments and
further related and/or complementary disciplines within
the University of Salzburg as well as with local and na-
tional non-university research institutions is encouraged.
The successful candidate is expected to initiate, acquire
and implement novel externally funded national and
international research programs, e.g. Austrian Science
Fund (FWF), FWF research groups, European or other
international joint projects, etc., to establish a research
group, to show active participation in the academic
self-administration and a willingness and the relevant
qualication to take on a leadership position.
Salzburg oers not only an attractive research environ-
ment, but also excellent quality of life in a medium-sized
city with a rich cultural life, close proximity to moun-
tains and lakes and easy access to the major urban
centres of Vienna and Munich.
*Minimum general requirements for the appointment
are:
1. A completed PhD compatible with the advertised
position; 2. the qualication to teach at the university
level (venia docendi or equivalent qualication); 3. ex-
cellent scientic abilities; 4. excellent pedagogical and
didactical skills; 5. managerial skills necessary to lead
an academic organization; 6. evidence of integration
within the international research community (e.g. peer
review of manuscripts and proposals, international ex-
perience and cooperations); 7. prociency in written
and spoken German.
The position is permanent and full time following by-
law UG 2002 and the Employee Act of Austria. The
payment will be according to collective agreement for
university employees of the group A1, with a minimum
salary of euro 4.842,70 before tax (14 annual payments).
The University of Salzburg is committed to increasing
the share of women in research and teaching positions
and therefore explicitly encourages female candidates
to apply. In the event of equal qualications, preference
will be given to women.
Disabled candidates or people with chronic illnesses
with the required qualications are explicitly invited to
submit their applications.
Travel and accommodation expenses arising from this ap-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 99
plication and any potential visit cannot be reimbursed.
Applications, including the standard documents (cur-
riculum vitae, list of publications, teaching record, teach-
ing evaluation, research projects and other relevant ac-
tivities), as well as a description of the future research
and teaching concepts should be addressed to the Rector
of the Paris Lodron University of Salzburg, Univ.-Prof.
Dr. Heinrich Schmidinger and sent by email to bewer-
bung@sbg.ac.at. Informal enquiries can be directed to
ulrike.berninger@sbg.ac.at.
Applications must be received by 27 Jan. 2017.
Dr. Anja H orger University of Salzburg Department of
Ecology and Evolution Hellbrunnerstr. 34 5020 Salzburg
Austria
Email: anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at Tel: +43 662 8044-5501
H orger Anja <anja.hoerger@sbg.ac.at >
USouthCarolina
EvolutionaryBiology
This is a tenure-track DBER position, open to all areas
of biology. One of our search committee members is
an evolutionary biologist, and he wanted to make sure
this got out to that community. He was worried about
getting applicants only from cell/molecular type areas.
|{
BIOLOGY EDUCATION RESEARCH
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA
The Department of Biological Sciences in the College of
Arts and Sciences invites applications for a tenure-track
position at the rank of ASSISTANT PROFESSOR in
Biology Discipline-Based Education Research (DBER).
Successful candidates will be expected to develop a vi-
brant, extramurally funded DBER research program in
any area of biology education research. We are espe-
cially interested in a focus on scholarship of teaching
and learning, learner-centered teaching strategies, and
evidence-based teaching, learning and assessment prac-
tices. This position is part of an anticipated series of new
DBER faculty positions in the sciences. Candidates will
have a PhD in an appropriate eld of biology, research
experience in teaching and learning at the university
level, and postdoctoral experience is preferred. This
person will be responsible for teaching at both under-
graduate and graduate levels, in courses appropriate tohis/her expertise.
Applications should be emailed in PDF format to, Peggy
Breeland, Administrative Coordinator, Biology Educa-
tion Research Search Committee, Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia,
SC 29208; (breeland@mailbox.sc.edu). Applications
should include a curriculum vitae and a statement (4
page max) describing research accomplishments, future
DBER research plans, teaching interests, and teaching
philosophy. Applicants should arrange to have at least
three letters of reference sent to the committee and
provide a list of the names, mail and email addresses,
and phone numbers for those referees. Review of appli-
cations will begin February 1, 2017, and will continue
until the position is lled.
The University of South Carolina's main campus is
located in the state capital, close to mountains and
coast. The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement
of Teaching has designated the University as one of only
40 public institutions with \very high research activity".
The Carnegie Foundation also lists USC as having strong
community engagement. The University has over 33,000
students on the main campus, more than 300 degree
programs, and a nationally-ranked library system that
includes one of the nation's largest public lm archives.
Columbia, the capital of South Carolina, is the center of
an increasingly sophisticated greater metropolitan area
with a population of over 800,000.
The Department of Biological Sciences (http://-
www.biol.sc.edu/) is a multidisciplinary unit of approx-
imately 1,600 Undergraduate Students, 45 Graduate
Students, 15 Postdoctoral Associates, and 42 Faculty
representing a broad range of research areas, including
Molecular and Cellular Biology, Genetics, Biochemistry,
Bioinformatics, Cancer Biology, Ecology and Evolution,
Plant Sciences and Neuroscience.
The University of South Carolina is an armative action,
equal opportunity employer. Minorities and women are
encouraged to apply. The University of South Carolina
does not discriminate in educational or employment
opportunities or decisions for qualied persons on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age,
disability, sexual orientation, or veteran status.
\WHITE, ALAN" <ARWHITE@mailbox.sc.edu >100 EvolDir January 1, 2017
UVienna PopulationGenomics
StatisticalGenetics
The University of Vienna seeks to appoint a faculty
member:
*Tenure-Track Position (full time) Computational Biol-
ogy (Statistical Genetics/Population Genomics)*
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centers in evolutionary biology
(www.evolvienna.at, www.popgen-vienna.at). In addi-
tion to a stimulating scientic environment, Vienna also
oers an extraordinarily high quality of life. Aordable
housing, excellent public transport, great restaurants,
a range of international schools, two operas, two music
centers, many theaters and museums in combination
with a pleasant climate make Vienna one of the most
attractive cities in Europe.
The position will be allocated to the Centre for Molec-
ular Biology (MFPL - Max F. Perutz Laboratories) of
the University of Vienna. MFPL is part of the Vienna
Biocenter Campus, a Life Sciences Cluster for world-
class research with excellent core facilities (sequencing,
bioinformatics, computer cluster). Successful applicants
will have access to PhD students and Postdoctoral fel-
lows through highly successful International Programs.
The campus hosts an international kindergarten.
Successful candidates should have the following quali-
cations: - Doctoral degree/PhD and at least two years
post-doctoral experience at a university or other research
institution - Outstanding achievements and potential
in research, excellent publication record, international
reputation - Experience in designing and participating
in research projects, as well as the willingness and ability
to lead research groups - Enthusiasm for excellent teach-
ing, teaching experience at universities or a teaching
concept as well as the ability and willingness to teach
students in all phases of their studies (bachelor's, mas-
ter's, or doctoral level), to supervise academic theses
and to promoting young academic colleagues
The University of Vienna expects the successful candi-
date to acquire, within three years, prociency in Ger-
man sucient for teaching in bachelor's programmes
and for participation in university committees. In ad-
dition, the University of Vienna expects the successful
candidate to be prepared to take over responsibility on
the organisational level of the Centre and the University,if necessary.
Job description: The announced position is an aca-
demic tenure-track position. Within two years' time,
the University will oer a qualication agreement if the
academic performance suggests that the required high
qualication can be reached. With the conclusion of
the qualication agreement, the employee will be al-
located to the group of \Assistant Professors". If the
qualication is achieved according to the agreement,
employment, which originally has a six-year duration,
will be continued for an indenite period as an \Asso-
ciate Professor". Via a further competitive procedure
as stipulated in the University's Statutes, associate pro-
fessors can be directly promoted to full professor. If the
qualication goals are not achieved, the employment
will end upon expiry of the contract term.
We oer: - the opportunity for a long-time career track,
attractive salary - in addition to the statutory social
insurance, the University of Vienna oers a pension
fund to its employees - a dynamic research location with
well-established research funding provisions - attractive
working conditions in a city with a high quality of life - a
wide range of support services oered by central service
institutions - a start-up package to be negotiated
The University of Vienna pursues a non-discriminatory
employment policy and values equal opportunities, as
well as diversity. The University lays special emphasis
on increasing the number of women in senior and in aca-
demic positions. Given equal qualications, preference
will be given to female applicants.
Application documents: - Application letter, including
a brief description of: - current research interests and
research plans for the immediate future - current and
planned foci in academic teaching and the supervision of
young researchers - Academic curriculum vitae - List of
publications, including specication of three key publica-
tions - List of talks given, including information about
invited lectures at international conferences - Third-
party funds list of acquired third-party funded projects,
as well as a list of third-party funded projects which
the candidate was a member of (subject, duration, ori-
gin, volume) - Overview of previous academic teaching
and/or teaching concepts as well as supervised theses -
Names and contact addresses of three or more referees
Applications must be submitted in English (preferably
as a single PDF) to facultyopenings@mfpl.ac.at, c/o
Graham Warren. Informal inquiries can be sent to
joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at
The application deadline is 28 February 2017.
{ Joachim HermissonJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 101
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UWashington NoninvasiveGenetics
LabManager
Noninvasive Genetics Lab Manager at UW Seattle
The School of Environmental and Forest Sciences at
the University of Washington has created a new shared
genetics lab directed by Dr. Laura Prugh. We seek
an experienced individual to help get the lab up and
running, supervise and train lab users, and to carry
out noninvasive genotyping projects. Current projects
include studies of interactions among a variety of carni-
vores (wolves, cougars, coyotes, foxes, bobcats, shers)
and ungulates in Alaska and Washington using DNA
obtained from scats, puncture wounds, and snow tracks.
Other users of the lab may work on varied projects,
including those focused on soils, plants, microbes, or
other wildlife. We are currently setting up the lab with
new equipment, including a droplet digital PCR system
that will facilitate cutting edge eDNA work. The lab
manager will work independently to arrange equipment,
purchase supplies, train and supervise graduate and
undergraduate students while in the lab, run genetic
analyses, and lead or contribute to publications. The
lab manager will be fully integrated into the Prugh lab
wildlife ecology research group, with the possibility of
assisting with projects outside the lab (e.g., eldwork).
See http://www.prughlab.com/ for more about what
we do.
The lab manager will be hired as a full time Research
Scientist, at a starting salary of $3600/month with full
benets. Funds are available for at least one year, and
the position could be extended pending successful grant
proposals. Ideal start date is early January 2017.
Responsibilities and Tasks: - Non-invasive genotyping,
extracting and amplifying DNA from hair and fecal sam-
ples of wild carnivores - Optimization of PCR protocols
- mtDNA and microsatellite analyses for species and
individual ID - Use of software such as Genemapper
to score alleles - Generation of consensus genotypes
from repeated PCR runs - Estimation of genotyping
error rates - Purchasing supplies - Training graduateand undergraduate students - Managing use of lab -
Assistance with manuscript preparation (with potential
for authorship and co-authorship)
Minimum requirements: Bachelor's Degree in an appro-
priate eld of technology or science, plus at least one
year of research experience. Prociency with fecal geno-
typing and individual identication from microsatellites
is required.
Desired qualications: Master's Degree in an appropri-
ate eld of technology or science with at least one year
of research experience. Previous supervisory and man-
agerial experience is desirable. Experience with eDNA
work would be benecial.
To apply: Please email a cover letter summarizing your
interests and qualications, your cv, and contact infor-
mation for 3 references in a single pdf to lprugh@uw.edu.
Position is open until lled. To ensure full consideration,
submit your materials by Dec 31, 2016.
\lprugh@uw.edu" <lprugh@uw.edu >
UWashington PopGenetics
The Department of Genome Sciences at the University
of Washington is continuing a major expansion under its
chair, Dr. Robert Waterston. Research in the depart-
ment encompasses both genetic and genomic analysis
of humans and model organisms. The department also
has a signicant focus in technology development and
in computational biology across all levels including se-
quence, expression, proteomics, single-cell, network, and
genetic analysis. The department invites applications
for a full-time faculty position at the rank of ASSIS-
TANT PROFESSOR, tenure-track in human genetics,
population genetics, computational genomics and/or
technology development. The position involves estab-
lishing an active research program as well as teaching
duties. Applicants must hold an M.D. degree or a Ph.D.
in a relevant area. To ensure full consideration complete
applications must be received by February 1st, 2017.
Candidates should email their curriculum vitae and
statement of research and teaching interests, and ar-
range to have three signed letters of reference sent to:
faculty-search@gs.washington.edu.
For additional information that may be helpful in prepar-
ing an application, see the department's web site at
http://www.gs.washington.edu . University of Wash-
ington is an armative action and equal opportunity102 EvolDir January 1, 2017
employer. All qualied applicants will receive consid-
eration for employment without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, national origin, age, protected veteran or
disabled status, or genetic information.
\phg@u.washington.edu" <phg@u.washington.edu >
UWisconsin Milwaukee Dean
The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) invites
applications for the position of Dean of the College of
Letters & Science. The College of Letters & Science
is the largest on campus comprising 45% of ranked
faculty at UWM, graduating 27% of all students at
UWM annually, and securing 60% of campus research
funding. UWM recently received two signicant recog-
nitions. The Carnegie Foundation granted the campus
the Community Engagement Classication in 2015 for
its signicant work in Milwaukee and Wisconsin's south-
east region. In February 2016, UWM was designated
a R-1 Doctoral University - Highest Research Activity,
by the Carnegie Classication of Institutions of Higher
Education.
As the chief executive and academic ocer for the Col-
lege, the Dean has primary responsibility to plan, de-
velop, and administer all aspects of the College's educa-
tional programs, activities, and budget; provide vision in
setting priorities and leadership in maintaining academic
standards and in strengthening faculty scholarship and
research; work with partners across the university; and
represent the College within the University, the UW Sys-
tem, the external community and region, with alumni,
and with appropriate external agencies and organiza-
tions regarding academic programs and standards.
UWM seeks candidates with a strong record of profes-
sional accomplishment, commitment to excellence in
both research and teaching, and outstanding manage-
ment and leadership skills to serve as the new Dean.
The Dean must be a person with the highest integrity
and an educational leader.
Candidates must possess a terminal degree with schol-
arly qualications sucient for appointment as a tenured
full professor in a department within the College and
have proven leadership and administrative experience.
The complete position description is available at: http:/-
/www4.uwm.edu/secu/news events/l-and-s-dean.cfm
The Committee will accept applications and nomina-
tions until the position is lled. Initial screening ofapplications will begin in February 2017 and continue
until an appointment is made. For best consideration,
applications must be received on or before February 12,
2017. Applications received after this date may not be
considered.
The Chair of the Search and Screen Committee, Jen-
nifer Doering, welcomes all inquiries and nominations.
Nominations should include name, position, e-mail and
telephone number of the nominee. Chair Doering may
be contacted at doering@uwm.edu or (414) 229-5146.
Applications must include a cover letter, a complete cur-
riculum vitae and contact information for at least ve
references. These materials must be uploaded through
UWM's Applicant Information Management System
(AIMS) at: http://jobs.uwm.edu/postings/25764 In ac-
cordance with Wisconsin's Open Records Law, requests
for condentiality by nominees and applicants will be
honored, if so requested, except that names and titles
of the nalists must be disclosed.
UWM is an AA/EOE employer: All applicants will re-
ceive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or
protected veteran status.
Rafael Lucas Rodriguez, PhD Associate Profes-
sor Biological Sciences, Lapham Hall Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 3209 N. Maryland
Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53201, USA rafa@uwm.edu
www.preferencefunctions.org Rafael L Rodriguez
Sevilla <rafa@uwm.edu >
ZFMK Germany
HeadOfMolecularLab
Head of Molecular Lab at Zoological Researchmuseum
A. Koenig, Germany
The Centre of Molecular Biodiversity Research (https:/-
/www.zfmk.de/en/research/research-centers-and-
groups/centre-for-molecular-biodiversity-research-zmb)
at the Zoological Research Museum Alexander Koenig
(ZFMK) seeks creative and highly skilled applicants
for a tenure-track position as head of the molecular
laboratory. The molecular laboratory is a central
facility of the ZFMK and provides service to other
scientists at the ZFMK. It is a fully equipped molec-
ular lab, including robot units for high through-put
DNA analysis. Two technical assistants are directly
associated with the head of the molecular lab.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 103
Required qualications
It is essential that the applicant has:
* a PhD in Ecology, Evolution or Molecular Biology or
a closely related eld with strong emphasis on empir-
ical molecular work and computational skills in these
subjects; * experience in working with non-model or-
ganisms (animals); * experience in molecular genetics,
including DNA extractions, PCR, next-generation se-
quencing, roboting, establishing lab setups; * experience
in data management and analysing DNA sequence and
genome data (computational skills); * experience in sta
management and student supervision; * experience in
developing long-term strategies for the lab, meeting the
goals of a state of the art central molecular lab service;
* motivation to work in a team and take responsibil-
ity; * motivation to counsel scientists of the museum in
terms of molecular work, strategic development, etc.; *
excellent communication skills.
It is desirable that the applicant has/is:
* a good knowledge of the software R for programming,
statistical analyses or graphical visualization of data;
* experience with soft money acquisition, in particular
concerning infrastructure development; * uent in En-
glish; a good understanding of German is advantageous.
Applicants are evaluated based on how well they full
the requirements detailed above. Such evidence may
include documentation of completed course work, sci-
entic publications, technical and analytical know-how,
evidence of organisational skills, and prior experience
in lab management. Whenever possible, statements to
these eects should be accompanied by objective or inde-pendent assessment of the candidate's track record and
potential. These may include links to access published
or unpublished material or letters of support from su-
pervisors or previous employers. The tenure procedure
will evaluate the above listed essential criteria (a high
publication output is not mandatory for the getting
tenure).
The ZFMK is a Leibniz Institution cooperating with
the University of Bonn and funded by the Federal
State of NRW and the Federal Government. The Cen-
tre of Molecular Biodiversity Research has been estab-
lished to foster molecular research spanning from ge-
nomics and speciation genetic research to developing
high-throughput barcoding applications.
We oer a highly motivating environment and exible
working hours. Salary and benets are according to a
public service position in Germany (E13, TVL-13). The
ZFMK advocates gender equality. Women are therefore
strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualied severely
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
contract will start as soon as possible and will initially
be restricted to three years. A tenured position will be
subject to personal performance reviewed by a commis-
sion. Please send your application by e-mail attachment,
including a detailed CV, and names of three referees
until January 20th, 2017 to Mrs. Lenz, head of the sta
management (e-mail: h.lenz@zfmk.de). In case of ques-
tions concerning the position, please contact Prof. Dr.
Bernhard Misof, Head of the Centre of Molecular Biodi-
versity Research (e-mail: b.misof.zfmk@uni-bonn.de).
For more information about the museum see http://-
www.zfmk.de Bernhard Misof <bmisof@uni-bonn.de >
Other
AlgaeEvol NormaJLang EarlyCareerFellowships . . 104
AmericanGeneticAssoc Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
AmericanGeneticAssoc SpecialEventsAwards . . . . . 104ArnoldArboretum HarvardU Funding . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Drosophilogistis LarrySandlerAwardNominations . 105
GenomeSequence DataSchool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106104 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Isabelle Olivieri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Leipzig CallProposals PostdocsSabbaticalsGroups 107
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen Vol SexualSelectionParrots
107
Phyloseminar XavierDidelot Jan13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Seeking GBS facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
SummerUndergraduateResearch PlantGenetics . . . 108SystematicsResearchFund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
TravelGrants to TexasAMU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UBristol FieldInternships EvolFruities . . . . . . . . . . 110
UTexas ElPase ChihuahuanDesertBiodiversity . . . .111
WillametteU VolField YuccaCoevolution . . . . . . . . . 111
Wolbachia-infected Ephestia kuehniella . . . . . . . . . . .112
AlgaeEvol NormaJLang
EarlyCareerFellowships
To anyone using algae as a research subject:
Information on the Norma J. Lang Early Career Fel-
lowships is now available on the Phycological Society of
America (PSA) website:
http://www.psaalgae.org/norma-j-lang-fellowships/
Please visit this link to learn more about this award
as well as information on the application requirements.
The deadline for submission for this award is May 1
each year.
Thank you.
Sincerely, Kirsten
PSA Communications Director
{ Kirsten Muller Ph. D. Professor Associate Chair
(Graduate Studies) Interim Associate Chair (Un-
dergraduate Studies) Biology, University of Wa-
terloo 200 University Ave. West N2L 3G1
phone: 519-888-4567 ext. 32224 fax: 519-746-0614
kmmuller@uwaterloo.ca http://uwaterloo.ca/biology/-
people-proles/kirsten-m-muller Twitter: @kirstenm-
muller
Chris Lane Associate Professor Integrated & Evol. Bio.
Graduate Director Department of Biological Sciences
University of Rhode Island 120 Flagg Road Kingston,
RI., 02881 Oce: CBLS 277 ph (401) 874-2683 fax (401)
874-2065 http://cels.uri.edu/bio/lanelab/ Chris Lane
<clane@uri.edu >AmericanGeneticAssoc Awards
The American Genetic Association grants Evolutionary,
Ecological, or Conservation Genomics (EECG) Research
Awards to graduate and post-doctoral researchers who
are at a critical point in their research, where addi-
tional funds would allow them to conclude their research
project and prepare it for publication.
These awards are open to any graduate student or post-
doctoral fellow who is a member of the American Ge-
netic Association at the time of application ^ a e\ visit
http://www.theaga.org/ for membership details.
The program is not intended to fund an entire research
project, to initiate new research projects, or to pro-
vide salary support. Proposals addressing genome-scale
questions, or ecological, evolutionary and conservation
genetics questions best addressed with genome-scale
data, will be given priority for funding. Awards will
generally range from $5,000 to $10,000, awarded to the
PI or institution (no overhead is provided).
Application deadline is 1 Feb 2017; award outcomes will
be announced 15 Apr 2017.
Details and instructions for preparing applications
can be found at http://www.theaga.org/ AGAJOH
<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >
AmericanGeneticAssoc
SpecialEventsAwards
SPECIAL EVENTS AWARDS Application Deadline 31
January 2017 Awards announced 31 March 2017 The
American Genetic Association grants awards each year
for support of special events that advance the missionJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 105
of AGA, particularly to support students to attend the
event.
Eligible events include specialized workshops and short
courses in topical areas of organismal genetics and ge-
nomics, but any event relevant to AGA's purpose will be
considered. Events that could lead to Journal of Hered-
ity articles will receive special consideration. Awards are
usually between $5,000- $15,000, with a total of $70,000
available for 2017.
Funding is competitive, and applications
must follow the guidelines. Details can be
found at http://www.theaga.org/ AGAJOH
<AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu >
ArnoldArboretum HarvardU
Funding
Research Funding opportunities at the Arnold Arbore-
tum of Harvard University
The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University promotes
and supports research consistent with its mission to
discover and disseminate knowledge of the plant king-
dom. To foster both independent and collaborative
work, the Arboretum oers fellowships and awards to
students, post-doctoral researchers, and professionals
of the biological sciences including evolution, ecology,
development, and genetics. Applicants are encouraged
to dene and develop paths of inquiry using the Arbore-
tum's resources, including its world-renowned living col-
lection, herbarium, plant records, library and archives,
greenhouse and laboratories, and the expertise of its
sta.
There is currently one fellowship, eight awards, and an
internship program. Applicants must submit a research
proposal online by Feb 1.
Please see the website for the specic requirements of
each award.
http://www.arboretum.harvard.edu/research/-
fellowships/ Available Opportunities:
DaRin Butz Research Internship Program of the Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University
Ashton Award for Student Research
Cunin / Sigal Research Award
Deland Award for Student ResearchShiu-Ying Hu Student/Postdoctoral Exchange Award
Putnam Fellowship in Plant Science
Arnold Arboretum Genomics Initiative and Sequencing
Award
Jewett Prize
Sargent Award for Visiting Scholars
Sinnott Award
{ Faye Rosin, PhD Director of Research Facilitation
Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University 1300 Centre
St Roslindale, MA 02131
phone: (617) 384-5095 fax: (617) 384-6596
frosin@oeb.harvard.edu http://arboretum.harvard.edu/
Faye Rosin <frosin@oeb.harvard.edu >
Drosophilogistis
LarrySandlerAwardNominations
LAST CHANCE - Larry Sandler Award Nominations
Only a few days left to nominate your students for the
Larry Sandler Award. Thesis advisors can nominate
any student completing a PhD in an area of Drosophila
research between July 2015 and December 2016. | The
winner will present the Larry Sandler Memorial Lecture
on the opening night of the 58th Annual Drosophila Re-
search Conference, March 29, 2017, in San Diego. The
Award was established in 1988 by colleagues, friends,
and students of Dr. Sandler after his untimely death
in 1987. The award honors Dr. Sandler for his many
contributions to Drosophila genetics and his exceptional
dedication to the training of Drosophila biologists. |
Nominations should include a curriculum vitae, a thesis
abstract of one or two pages, and a letter of nomination
from the thesis advisor. The winner receives complimen-
tary airfare, accommodations, and registration for the
58th Annual Drosophila Research Conference as well
as lifetime GSA membership. | Nominationmaterials
should be sent to Bob Duronio as asingle PDF le no
later than December 22, 2016. | Would you still like
to submit an abstract for a poster presentation? Late
abstracts will be accepted until January 23, 2017 |
| Important Dates
2016 Larry Sandler Award Deadline Dec 22 2017 Late
Abstract Deadline Jan 23 Early Registration Deadline
Feb 3 Hotel Reservations Deadline Mar 3 |106 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Genetics Society of America| 9650 Rockville Pike,
Bethesda, MD 20814| (301) 634-7300||-||
society@genetics-gsa.org www.genetics-gsa.org |
Drosophila Research Conference <society@genetics-
gsa.org >
GenomeSequence DataSchool
If you applied for the Triple A Winter school on how
to Assemble, Annotate and Analyse Whole Genome
Sequence data you should have received an email de-
tailing the outcome of that application. If you have
not received this email please contact me on monte-
verita@env.ethz.ch
jessica.stapley@env.ethz.ch
Isabelle Olivieri
Isabelle Olivieri has left us on Saturday 10 December
at 4 am. She passed away quietly after having fought
with an admirable courage against her cancer but also
against a paraneoplasic syndrome, which heavily handi-
capped her for the last years of her life. Isabelle would
have passed 60 years in March 2017. She entered the
Agronomic College (AgroParisTech) in Paris in 1977,
specialized in zoology and then oriented her research
towards evolutionary genetics. Her PhD work concerned
Mediterranean thistles. These plants were invasive in
Australia and one of the goals of the CSIRO where she
was based in Montpellier was to nd control agents.
She will come back to the question of plant-insect in-
teractions later in her life. She did her Post-Doc in
Paul Ehrlich's lab in Stanford in 1983 and there, further
developed her ideas on the importance of the metapop-
ulation concept for the understanding of the evolution
of migration mechanisms. The paper which she will
publish on this subject in American Naturalist (after a
more than 4 years debate with the editors) will provide
her with a congratulation letter from Ernst Mayr (this
letter is probably somewhere in her \records", Isabelle
has never been very gifted for ordering, her papers as
the rest!).
Hired at the INRA (Agronomic Research Institute) in a
laboratory near Montpellier on a programme concerningMediterranean Alfalfa, predominantly annuals, she de-
veloped her research on the evolution of genetic systems
by studying the evolutionary mechanisms determining
the lifespan of organisms according to their ecology. Her
DSc thesis will treat of the constitution of an integrative
approach of evolution uniting demographic and genetic
models on both migration and longevity characters.
Hired as full Professor at Montpellier, she became the
rst professor in Population Genetics at Montpellier
and set up high level courses. She carried on with her
quest of evolutionary mechanisms by coming back to
thistles and their insects. She studied habitat choice,
host specicity, realised a leading study on the Conser-
vation Biology of a local Centaurea, again in relation
with the metapopulation concept, and developed exper-
imental evolution studies . The list of questions which
she tackled with her team or with diverse collaborators
would be too long to be detailed here.
Isabelle also became a recognized actor of international
evolutionary biology. John Maynard Smith has once
said that she was the fth column[1] of the French evo-
lutionary biology into the anglo-saxon world. Indeed,
she will become president of the European Society of
Evolutionary Biology, vice president of the American
Society for the Study of Evolution, the Dutch Academy
of sciences will attribute her a comfortable grant allow-
ing her to come whenever and wherever she wishes in
any University to interact with local scientists, she will
belong to the editorial board of numerous journals, the
French Society of Ecology will give her its \grand prix"
and CNRS its silver medal. Despite all those recog-
nition proofs, Isabelle did not search for honours nor
for responsibilities. Actually, she would rather make
her best to escape from them. She however used all
opportunities to defend her convictions and transmit
messages. Invited by the French president to a lunch
with other female scientists, she gave an interview to a
newspaper criticizing his policy for scientic research.
In her national and international activities, Isabelle has
established sustainable and fruitful cooperative relation-
ships and tried to gather ideas and people together,
bring demography and genetics, ecology and evolution
together . It was undoubtedly one of the causes of her
charisma, of the fact that a number of us were ready to
follow her even on steep paths, just like the Corsican
ones she liked so much.
When she passed her DSc, Georges Valdeyron, who had
supervised her PhD and who was 45 older than her,
stated that the students he was interacting with were
a bit like his progeny but that his relation with her
was dierent; actually she had been more like a nursing
mother. From that point of view, in a way, we, French
evolutionary biologists, are orphans today. The one whoJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 107
dared say things which should not be told, who disputed
ercely, step by step let us admit it, it was sometimes
painful any opinion which she did not nd rational, the
one who oriented the research of a lot of us and who
was an example for many, has disappeared. If Isabelle
could be severe, brusque sometimes, all of those who
have known her have beneted from her exceptional
generosity and from her care for collective actions. Her
involvement at the collective level has led those who
worked with her to establish deep aective relations
with her and to build this large family, of which she is
the soul, and which will remain united now that she is
gone. Her house she shared with her companion was
widely open and innumerable
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Leipzig CallProposals
PostdocsSabbaticalsGroups
sDiv has opened a new call for Working Groups, Post-
docs and Sabbaticals.
Deadline: Proposal 15 FEBRUARY 2017 & Deadline
for Letter of Intent 18 January 2017
Please for more information: www.idiv.de/sdiv/calls
Please spread the word & apply :) Thanks a lot!
With my best regards from sunny Leipzig,
sMarten Winter
Dr. Marten Winter Scientic Coordinator Synthesis
Centre sDiv / Wissenschaftlicher Koordinator Synthe-
sezentrum sDiv German Centre for Integrative Biodi-
versity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Phone +49(0)341-97-33129 Fax +49(0)341-97-39358
Email marten.winter@idiv.de Homepage https://-
www.idiv.de/the-centre/employees/details/eshow/-
winter-marten.html German Centre for Integrative
Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Deutscher Platz 5e 04103 Leipzig Germany
iDiv is a research centre of the DFG - Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft
\Winter, Marten" <marten.winter@idiv.de >MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen Vol
SexualSelectionParrots
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen. SexualSelectionParrotsVol-
unteers
Where: Tenerife, Spain When: mid-January until end
of August (at least 2 months) What: Volunteer eld
assistants - Parrot sexual selection
The Department of Behavioural Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Genetics at the Max Planck Institute for Or-
nithology in Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany (see http:/-
/www.orn.mpg.de/2622/Department Kempenaers), is
seeking three volunteers to start working mid-January
and until the end of August 2017 (the position requires
a minimum of 2 months).
The volunteers will assist in the collection of courtship
displays and egg-laying data. This work would be part
of a project that aims to understand sexual selection
in parrots of the world. The work will be done with
captive animals that are held in the facilities of the Loro
Parque Fundacion, located in Tenerife, Spain.
Work will include: - recording courtship displays - fol-
lowing up reproduction (sexual displays, mating, and
egg laying) - maintenance of electronic equipment - set-
ting up experimental equipment - data collection, entry,
and management
Successful candidates should have experience with video-
recording equipment. Experience with monitoring an-
imals is desirable. Applicants should also be highly
motivated and well organised, with capabilities of work-
ing both in a group and independently. Work will be
5-6 days per week.
The working language at the Institute is English, so
good knowledge of the language is required. A basic
working knowledge of the Spanish language would be
advantageous but not mandatory. Eligibility is sadly
restricted to UK and EU students. The Max Planck
Institute for Ornithology employs a dynamic, dedicated,
and international group of researchers who are focused
on exploring the elds of evolution, ecology, genetics,
and neurobiology.
Benets will include accommodation and travel-related
expenses in Tenerife.
Please apply (including your CV and cover letter) via
email to lcarballo@orn.mpg.de108 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Deadline: 06 January 2017 or until the positions are
lled.
Luisana Carballo Department of Behavioural Ecology
and Evolutionary Genetics Max-Planck-Institute for
Ornithology Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae, House 8 82319
Seewiesen Germany
lcarballo@orn.mpg.de
Phyloseminar XavierDidelot Jan13
Next talk on http://phyloseminar.org/ :
Modelling recombination in prokaryote phylogenomics
Xavier Didelot Imperial College London Monday, Jan-
uary 23, 2017, 9:00 AM PST
Recombination happens frequently in most bacterial
and archaeal species. Traditional phylogenetic tech-
niques do not account for this, which can greatly limit
their usefulness for the analysis of genomic data. The
coalescent with gene conversion accurately models the
ancestry process of prokaryotes, and this can be used
to simulate realistic data, but it is too complex to use
in an inferential setting. Approximations have therefore
been introduced, which are centred around the concept
of the clonal genealogy, that is the phylogeny obtained
by following the line of ancestry of the recipient of each
recombination event. I will review these mathematical
models and ongoing eorts to develop statistical soft-
ware to perform phylogenomic analysis in recombining
prokaryotes.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fredhutch.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Seeking GBS facilities
Dear Evoldir members
In our group we seek to use GBS of restriction-enzyme
reduced genomes to nd SNPs for population genetics
of non-model organisms. We are aware of patent prob-
lems when using this technique, that's why I would like
advice about facilities or companies that are adequately
licensed and that oer the service of library preparation(with preliminary enzyme checking and selection) and
sequencing. Infos about prices are also welcome
Thanks for your answers, I will prepare a post with
them
Regards
Xavier Turon xturon@ceab.csic.es
{
Xavier Turon Dept. of Marine Ecology Center for Ad-
vanced Studies of Blanes (CEAB, CSIC) Acc es a la Cala
S. Francesc 14 17300 Blanes (Girona) Spain
E-mail: xturon@ceab.csic.es Phone: +34 972 336101
Fax: +34 972 337806 http://www.ceab.csic.es/
http://www.ub.edu/beb/english/invertebrates/turon/-
turon.htm Xavier Turon <xturon@ceab.csic.es >
SummerUndergraduateResearch
PlantGenetics
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is emerging as an im-
portant biofuel candidate in the United States. Our
labs (see list of collaborators below) collectively study
the ecology, genetics/genomics, physiology and agron-
omy/plant breeding of Switchgrass. We are seeking a
talented and diverse group of undergraduate students
interested in conducting a variety of research in Switch-
grass biology across the US.
Program description: This program is an opportunity
for undergraduate students to participate in mentored
independent research on the biology of Switchgrass. The
program is funded through the NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) program and is associated
with our ongoing interdisciplinary work on the ecology,
physiology, and genomic responses of switchgrass to fu-
ture climate change. Summer students will be immersed
in research and learn basic and applied biology through
active participation in primarily eld-based work. Work-
ing as part of our research team, they will contribute to
group research projects, design short research projects,
and present their work in an end-of-summer student
symposium.
Each position is supported for 8-10 weeks beginning
the rst week of June. Students are awarded a $4500
stipend, plus a housing and food allowance, and some
funds to help defray the cost of traveling to the desig-
nated University.
Who Should Apply: Undergraduates that are not inJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 109
their senior year (typically 1st to 3rd year students),
who are either U.S. citizens or permanent residents
studying in the U.S.
Application process: The application deadline is Febru-
ary 19, 2017. Applicants should submit a 1-page cover
letter describing any relevant research experience, along
with their motivation for joining our research group,
and include a copy of their current transcript (unocial
transcript or screenshots are acceptable). Applicants
should also ensure that two letters of recommendation
are submitted on their behalf. Only applications that
are complete will be considered. Applications and re-
quests for further information should be directed to:
Dr. Brandon Campitelli e-mail: bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu Subject: Switchgrass
REU 2017
For more information regarding this opportunity,
and ongoing research, please visit our website:
https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/summer-
research-opportunities { Brandon E Campitelli j
PhD Postdoctoral Researcher jDept. of Integrative
Biology jCollege of Natural Sciences Clinical Assistant
Professor jBiology of Biofuels jFreshmen Research
Initiative University of Texas at Austin j(512) 471-9920
jPatterson Labs 638
brandon.campitelli@utexas.edu
SystematicsResearchFund
The Councils of the Linnean Society (https://-
www.linnean.org/) and the Systematics Association
(http://www.systass.org/) jointly administer the Sys-
tematics Research Fund (SRF) that provides grants
annually for small-scale research projects in the eld of
systematics.
Typical activities supported include contributions to
eldwork expenditure, the purchase of scientic equip-
ment or expertise (e.g. buying time on analytical equip-
ment), specimen preparation (including the cost of tem-
porary technical assistance), and contributions to publi-
cation costs. However, please note that it is unable to
fund the cost of article publication charges. Projects
of a more general or educational nature will also be
considered, provided that they include a strong sys-
tematics component. Typical activities not supported
include attendance at scientic meetings and contribu-
tions to student maintenance or tuition fees. The funddoes not provide payments for Bench Fees. Projects
already substantially funded by other bodies may be
disadvantaged.
Applications of all nationalities are welcome but appli-
cants must be a member of the Systematics Association
or Linnean Society of London.
Successful projects are selected by a panel of systema-
tists who represent a wide range of conceptual interests
and taxonomic groups. Generally, applications in the
range of 500-1,000 are preferred, the value of any single
award will not exceed 1500.
Deadline 15 February 2017
More information on SRF on the Systematics Associa-
tion webpage: http://www.systass.org/awards/srf.shtml
Questions about the application procedure can also be
sent to the SRF Administrator (srf@systass.org)
Dr. Anne D. Jungblut Research Scientist Life Sciences
Department The Natural History Museum Cromwell
Road London SW7 5BD
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7942 5285
Anne Jungblut <a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >
TravelGrants to TexasAMU
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Doctoral Pro-
gram at Texas A&M is pleased to announce the availabil-
ity of travel grants for prospective PhD students. These
travel grants, which will be awarded on a competitive
basis, will cover the costs of a domestic ight to and
from College Station, hotel accommodations while in
College Station, plus a per diem for meals. The aim of
the travel grant is to provide prospective PhD students
the opportunity to:
- Interview with faculty and meet current graduate stu-
dents - Tour the department and campus to learn about
available resources and facilities - Explore College Sta-
tion and its surrounding areas
Travel grants will be awarded in January with travel
scheduled for February 5-7, 2016. Travel grant awardees
will spend time together during their visit, thus gaining
immediate insights into their future cohort.
Why should you consider obtaining a PhD at Texas
A&M University? The Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (EEB) Program at Texas A&M is a relatively
new doctoral program at one of the largest and best-110 EvolDir January 1, 2017
funded universities in the United States. It has a strong
mixture of nationally and internationally recognized ju-
nior and senior faculty working across the globe on a
diverse range of basic and applied research, spanning
physiological, population, community, ecosystem and
landscape ecology, genetics, genomics, behavior, and
systematics (to learn about our faculty visit: http://-
eeb.tamu.edu/people/faculty/). Support for graduate
study is available through multiple sources, including
teaching assistantships, research fellowships, and inter-
nal merit fellowships. Texas A&M University is posi-
tioned in Blackland Prairie and Post Oak Savannah
habitat, which supports great species diversity and a
wealth of research opportunities with great year-round
climate. Its location also provides a good base for ac-
cess to a broad range of habitats and research sites.
Additionally, its proximity to Austin, Dallas, Houston
and San Antonio oers easy air travel and a cultural
component to a whole graduate experience.
How to apply? To be considered for a travel grant,
prospective PhD students rst need to contact Jason
Martina, the EEB Program Coordinator (email: jp-
martina@tamu.edu; phone: 979 845-2114). To receive a
travel grant, an ocial Graduate Application package
must be submitted to the EEB Program. For additional
information about the EEB Program and the graduate
application process please visit: http://eeb.tamu.edu
For consideration for merit fellowships, your application
needs to be received by January 1, 2017
{ Jessica E. Light Associate Professor and Curator of
Mammals Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences
Biodiversity Research and Teaching Collections Texas
A&M University College Station, TX 77843 Phone: 979-
458-4357 http://www.jessicalight.org/ Jessica Light
<jlight2@tamu.edu >
UBristol FieldInternships
EvolFruities
Field internship positions available to study the eects
of climate change on species interactions in Australian
rainforest Drosophila We are looking for two motivated,
hardworking volunteers to help conduct eldwork in
northern Queensland, Australia as part of a project
examining evolutionary responses to climate change in
rainforest Drosophila.
This project is based at the University of Bristol, UK
(PI Dr Jon Bridle, postdoc Dr Eleanor O'Brien), andinvolves collaboration with researchers at the James
Cook University in Townsville (Dr Megan Higgie) and
the University of Melbourne (Prof Ary Homann), as
well as the University of Oxford (Prof Owen Lewis).
For further details of this research, please see our recent
(in press in Global Change Biology) http://biorxiv.org/-
content/early/2016/10/14/068080 These positions rep-
resent an excellent opportunity to be involved in exciting
research in evolutionary biology, and would suit those
seeking direct experience of study or research in this
area.
Your role will be to assist with laboratory rearing and
eld transplant experiments of Drosophila at several
locations in the rainforest in northern Queensland. You
will also need to help collect specimens, maintain live
stocks and perform other duties as required.
Training will be provided in Drosophila identication
and maintenance, although previous experience would
be an advantage.
Essential requirements: (1) BSc in evolutionary biology,
genetics, ecology or a related discipline.
(2) Ability to work carefully and meticulously, paying
close attention to detail.
(3) Enthusiasm for biological eldwork, and the abil-
ity to work as part of a team, including in hot, humid
conditions.
(5) A full driving licence.
Previous eldwork experience and 4 wheel-driving expe-
rience would also be useful.
Each eld intern must be able to spend at least three
months in Queensland between March - June 2017, with
the possibility of extension beyond this period. Full
living expenses (meals and accommodation) will be paid
while in the eld, and we can contribute 600 GBP (ap-
prox.
$US760/ $AU1000) towards the costs of travel to the
eld site.
Review of applications will begin on the 15th January
and will continue until the positions are lled. Appli-
cations should include a cover letter and CV, including
the names of two referees.
For further information about this position, or to apply,
please contact Eleanor O'Brien (e.k.o'brien@bath.ac.uk)
or Jon Bridle (jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk).
{ Dr Jon Bridle School of Biological Sciences
2A03, Life Sciences Building University of Bris-
tol, BS8 1TQ Tel. (+44) 117 394 1174 (in-
ternal 41174) jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk http://-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 111
www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/people/jon-r-bridle/ Jon
Bridle <Jon.Bridle@bristol.ac.uk >
UTexas ElPase
ChihuahuanDesertBiodiversity
REU Opportunity Summer 2017: \Research Experience
for Undergraduates in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity"
The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences invites applicants for the
NSF sponsored Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU) in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity. This
is a 10 week summer program. The goal of this pro-
gram is to provide undergraduate students with experi-
ence in hypothesis-driven collaborative research utilizing
eld based and/or laboratory methods and fully engage
students in projects associated with the ecology and
evolution inuencing Chihuahuan Desert biodiversity.
The program provides:
* High quality research experience in ecology and evo-
lutionary biology in the eld and/or lab * Research
opportunities at the Indio Mountains Research Station
(IMRS), a 40,000 acre facility controlled by UTEP *
One-on-one and group mentoring from active research
faculty in multidisciplinary elds * Training in bioethics
and other relevant professional skills
The program includes
* $5250 stipend for 10 weeks
* Housing in shared apartments and eld station * Travel
reimbursement of up to $600
For more information on the program, research projects
or to apply please visit: http://science.utep.edu/cdb-
reu/ Enquiries: CDB-REU@utep.edu
\mlmoody@utep.edu" <mlmoody@utep.edu >
WillametteU VolField
YuccaCoevolution
The Smith lab at Willamette University is soliciting
applications for volunteers to participate in eld re-
search studying the pollination biology and coevolutionof Joshua trees (*Yucca brevifolia*) and yucca moths
(genus *Tegeticula*) from mid March to mid April of
2017. Volunteers will assist in the completion of polli-
nation experiments in a plant hybrid zone located in
central Nevada, which will involve collecting ower and
leaf tissue samples, installing pollinator exclusion cages
over Joshua tree owers, collecting moths, and sorting
insects to species. All travel, food, and accommodation
costs will be covered by the project.
Participation will require living at a remote eld camp
continuously for approximately four weeks. Meals are
communal, prepared in a small RV kitchen, and evenings
are typically spent around the camp re. Many past
participants have returned for additional years, and
many have used the experience gained on this project
to secure other positions in agency, private conserva-
tion organizations, and graduate programs in ecology,
evolution, and entomology.
However, prospective participants should be aware that
conditions in the eld are challenging. The eld site has
no running water. Apart from personal tents and walks
in the desert there is little opportunity for personal
space and time, and there are no cell phone/internet
services at the eld site. (Wi and cell service are avail-
able in the nearest town, a 30-minute drive away). Daily
temperatures may drop below freezing or exceed 90 F.
Wind and sandstorms are very common. So, it is impor-
tant that prospective volunteers be enthusiastic about
living and working closely with others in challenging
conditions. Volunteers should also be capable of hiking
up to 6 miles per day while carrying heavy and awkward
loads, and able to climb a 6' ladder.
Prospective volunteers should submit a CV or resume,
the name and contact information for one or more profes-
sional references, and a letter describing their interest in
the project by email to csmith@willamette.edu . There
is no degree requirement, but a familiarity with and an
interest in ecology and natural history are necessary.
Please include the words 'Volunteer Field Assistant' in
the subject line of your message.
Screening of applicants will begin on January 15th, 2017,
and continue until all positions are lled.
More information about our research can be found here:
http://www.nsf.gov/discoveries/-
discsumm.jsp?cntn id=115956&org=NSF http:/-
/www.reviewjournal.com/news/water-environment/-
joshua-tree-yucca-moth-co-evolution-fascinates-
researchers https://knpr.org/knpr/2013-01/joshua-
tree-researcher-searching-citizen-scientists Christopher
Smith <csmith@willamette.edu >112 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Wolbachia-infected Ephestia
kuehniella
Dear all,
I'm trying to get hold of some (live) Ephestia kuehniella
(Mediterranean Flour moths) that are infected with
Wolbachia. If anyone is able to send me some, that
would be most appreciated. My email address is
Z.Lewis@liverpool.ac.uk.
Thanks in advance, and best wishes,
ZenDr Zenobia Lewis
Senior Lecturer, Director of Studies, Biological Sciences
@Zen ofScience
Room G53, Ground Floor, Biosciences Building
School of Life Sciences
University of Liverpool
Liverpool
L69 7ZB
UK
+44(0) 151 795 4384
logos
\Lewis, Zenobia" <Z.Lewis@liverpool.ac.uk >
PostDocs
AMNH NewYork MetabolicNetworkAnalysis . . . . . 113
ArnoldArboretum HarvardU PlantEvolution . . . . . 113
Berlin Fellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
Bordeaux France PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .114
CarnegieMuseumNatHist CuratorAnthropocene . . 115
CharlesU Prague SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . 116
ColoradoStateU PlantGeneticsEvolution . . . . . . . . . .117
CzechRepublic RepeatomeBioinformatics . . . . . . . . .117
DalhousieU MicrobialGeneTransfer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118
ETHZurich EvolutionaryMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
FloridaStateU EvolutionBehaviorMosquitosh . . . .119
Geneva EvolutionaryEcologyParasites . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Glasgow Evodevo Epigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
GreifswaldU EvolutionaryBiomathematics . . . . . . . . 121
IndianaU BehavioralPlasticityEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 122
LeedsU PlantFungiSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
LundU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .123
MonashU MitochondrialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
OIST Japan InsectEvolutionAndGenomics . . . . . . . 124PasteurInst BacterialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . 125
Rockville Maryland PhylotasticProject . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Rockville MD MutationInformaticsEvol . . . . . . . . . . 126
Southampton UK 2 ModellingEvodevo . . . . . . . . . . . 127
TexasTechU PlantFungalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
UAngers France RosaBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128
UBristol EvolutioaryRescue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
UBritishColumbia TroutGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
UCalifornia LosAngeles CapuchinMonkeyEvol . . . . 130
UCalifornia SanFrancisco ComputationalBiology . 131
UCDavis FishDiversication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
UChicago ComplexDiseaseModels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
UConnecticut SymbiontPhylogenomicsEvolution . 133
UFlorida 3 LifeHistoryTiming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
UFlorida ButteryMothGenomicsEvol . . . . . . . . . . . .135
UFZ Halle ButteryBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .136
UGhent EvolutionAnimalColouration . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
UHawaii BactroceraFruitFlies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
UHelsinki HostPathogenCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138January 1, 2017 EvolDir 113
UIceland Transcriptomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
UKansas BiodiversityInstitute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .139
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
ULiverpool PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
UMichigan AvianEvolutionSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
UMunich PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .141
UOtago PopGenTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142UPennsylvania EvolutionaryGameTheory . . . . . . . . 142
UPennsylvania SocialEvolutionTheory . . . . . . . . . . . .143
USussex EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
UtahStateU Macroevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .144
UTurku HumanLifeHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .145
UWitwatersrand StripedMouseProject . . . . . . . . . . . 145
AMNH NewYork
MetabolicNetworkAnalysis
A postdoctoral scholar position is immediately available
in the Sackler Institute of Comparative Genomics at the
American Museum of Natural History in New York City.
The research will involve computational reconstruction
of metabolic pathways of ancient organisms using a com-
bination of network analysis and phylogenetics and will
involve the development of new computational resources
along those lines. The successful candidate will have
extensive computational background in network and
graph based analysis and in scripting and programming
languages (e.g. python, perl, R, C/C++) to comple-
ment the team with expertise in biology, genomics, and
phylogentics. Additional experience in the development
and application of theoretical models to biological prob-
lems (e.g. machine learning methods) would also be of
interest.
The Sackler Institute of Comparative Genomics is a
preeminent center for research, collections, and training
in the eld of non-human comparative genomics and
in the pursuit of seminal research in the study of gene
variation, which informs our understanding of the hu-
man genome, the evolution and history of life, and the
conservation of Earth's biodiversity.
The American Museum of Natural History is a leading
research institution with world-class facilities and re-
searchers. It is home to more than 200 scientists who
work across the broad disciplines of anthropology, astro-
physics, biology, Earth and planetary sciences, and pa-
leontology, as well as to one of the world's most extraor-
dinary collections of specimens and artifacts. Through
the Richard Gilder Graduate School, it is the only U.S.
museum to award the Ph.D. degree.
Qualications: PhD in Biology, Bioinformatics, Com-
putational Biology, Computer Science, Physics, or a
related degree.
The position is funded for 2 years with a starting salaryof $56,000.
Please send a C.V. with a list of recent or relevent
publications, a cover letter, and a list of references to
jburns@amnh.org and anarechania@amnh.org.
John A. Burns Postdoctoral Fellow Kim Lab Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History Sackler Institute for
Comparative Genomics 212.769.5838 jburns@amnh.org
John A Burns <jburns@amnh.org >
ArnoldArboretum HarvardU
PlantEvolution
Katharine H. Putnam Fellowships in Plant Science
The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University invites
applicants for research fellowships in any eld of plant
science including evolution, ecology, and development.
Putnam Fellowships oer excellent opportunities for
advanced research and study using the Arboretum's
living collections of woody plants. Scientists with a
PhD and who have identied an independent research
project that would utilize the Arboretum's living col-
lections are encouraged to apply. The living collection,
numbering some 15,000 plants, in over 2,200 species, is
distinguished as one of the most thoroughly documented
collections of temperate woody plants in the world. Tax-
onomic diversity and breadth within the collection are
noteworthy, and the oras of China, Japan, and Korea
are particularly well represented.
Proposals are sought from early-career individuals with
a PhD in plant biology, evolution, plant genetics, plant
ecology, horticulture, or related discipline. Applicants
should be well positioned to conduct original, inde-
pendent research and to publish their ndings in peer-
reviewed publications.
Fellowship Details
Putnam Fellows are full-time employees of Harvard
University during their tenure, with stipends of up to114 EvolDir January 1, 2017
$48,000 per year depending on the duration of the fel-
lowship, and are eligible for health insurance benets.
Modest support is available for research expenses and
travel costs. The fellowship is typically awarded for 2
years, pending a satisfactory progress report at the end
of the rst year. Putnam Fellows are expected to be in
full-time residence at the Arboretum and are provided
oce and research space.
The Putnam Fellowship is an independent post-doctoral
position. As an independent scholar, Putnam Fellows
have access to shared laboratories, resources, and inter-
actions with fellow scientists, students and sta. It is
not necessary to have a specic faculty host.
More information is available via our website: http://-
arboretum.harvard.edu/research/fellowships/ . { Faye
Rosin, PhD Director of Research Facilitation Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University 1300 Centre St Roslin-
dale, MA 02131
phone: (617) 384-5095 fax: (617) 384-6596
frosin@oeb.harvard.edu http://arboretum.harvard.edu/
Faye Rosin <frosin@oeb.harvard.edu >
Berlin Fellowship
Fellowships College for Life Sciences - GAIN TIME TO
THINK
Wissenschaftskollegzu Berlin - Institute for Advanced
Study, Berlin, Germany
Deadline: January 8, 2017
The College for Life Sciences, a junior program of the
Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (Institute for Advanced
Study), announces the availability of a small number of
short-term fellowships for early-career postdoctoral life
scientists to live and work in a unique, interdisciplinary
environment on the Wissenschaftskolleg's campus. The
fellowship enables you to step back from your demanding
lab work and teaching duties and provides time to work
on your research questions, to develop your career goals,
to establish crucial collaborations, and to broadenyour
horizon. You will work among leading scientists of all
academic disciplines as well as outstanding intellectuals
who are Fellows of the Wissenschaftskolleg.
The fellowships are intended for residencies of 3-6
months during the academic year 2017-18. There are no
restrictions regarding life science discipline, nationality,
or age.Applications from scientists working at institu-tions in Berlin cannot be taken into consideration.
We oer a stipend covering your prior salary, studio ac-
commodation on the campus of the Wissenschaftskolleg
in Berlin, and access to its library and IT services, daily
meetings and lively discussions with all Fellows, weekly
colloquia, annually changing focus groups on contem-
porary scientic questions, scientic exchange with the
research community of Berlin, Germany and beyond,
the possibility to invite your ;scientists of interest to the
Wissenschaftskolleg and to organize workshops on sci-
entic topics you are interested in and to invite related
scientists.
We do not oer any lab space. We invite applications
from post-doctoral researchers andjunior principal in-
vestigators (lecturers, junior/assistant professors) from
all life science disciplines. If you have been a principal
investigator for longer thanve years, though, you are
advised to apply for a regular Fellowship. Application
includes a project proposal, a letter of motivation, your
CV and publication list.
Please apply here: https://www.wiko-berlin.de/-
institution/college-for-life-sciences/ Thank you for post-
ing..
Sincerely
Ulrike Pannasch
Dr. Ulrike Pannasch Wissenschaftliche Koordina-
torin/Scientic Coordinator College for Life Sciences
Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin / Institute for Advanced
Study Wallotstr. 19, 14193 Berlin Tel. +49 - 30 - 89 001
- 255 http://www.wiko-berlin.de/institution/college-for-
life-sciences/ Ulrike Pannasch <paul@wiko-berlin.de >
Bordeaux France
PopulationGenomics
Post doc position in Population Genomics Bordeaux,
France
Job description: A two years post doc position is avail-
able at UMR BIOGECO. Starting date as soon as pos-
sible or as agreed upon.
The general goal of the research will be to conduct
genome wide exploration of evolutionary changes that
occurred in recent times in European white oaks. Investi-
gations will be conducted on whole genome resequencing
data of extant populations sampled along geographic
gradients or known historical trajectories. The aim willJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 115
be to disentangle changes associated to demographic
events, admixture with other related species, and nat-
ural selection. Special emphasis will be given to the
detection of evolutionary changes over short time scales
(last 3-4 centuries). This research is part of a larger
ERC project investigating rates of genomic and phe-
notypic changes based on allochronic and synchronic
approaches (http://www.treepeace.fr/).
Scientic environment: The working location will
be at the BIOGECO research unit (20 km south-
west of Bordeaux, France (https://www4.bordeaux-
aquitaine.inra.fr/biogeco eng/). BIOGECO is a joint
research unit between INRA and the University of Bor-
deaux and has long standing experience in studying
evolution and genetic variation of forest trees. The re-
search group is multidisciplinary with competences in
population and quantitative genetics, ecology, evolution,
genomics and ancient DNA. The research environment
is international and oers opportunities for interactions
with other postdocs and researchers working on sim-
ilar projects. Pool-seq data, access to the annotated
oak genome sequence and access to supercomputation
facilities are available to carry out the work.
Required Qualications: The ideal candidate will have
a strong expertise in population genomics and genetics,
as well as strong programming, bioinformatics and sta-
tistical skills. Previous experience working with genome
wide data or whole genome resequencing data is a re-
quirement. Candidates should be uent in English.
Application: Application with CV, a brief statement
of research interests, contact information for two pro-
fessional references and publication list should be sub-
mitted in an electronic form to Dr. Antoine Kremer
(antoine.kremer@inra.fr). Review of applications will
begin on January 1st. Applications can be accepted
until the position is lled. Do not hesitate to contact
us for further details or questions. Salary will be deter-
mined according to the pay system of INRA, considering
qualication and experience.
Examples of recent publications:
Plomion C, Aury JM, Amselem J, Alaeitabar T, Barbe
V, Belser C, Berges H, Bod en es C, Boudet N, Boury
C, Canaguier A, Couloux A, Da Silva C, Duplessis S,
Ehrenmann F, Estrada-Mairey B, Fouteau S, Francil-
lonne N, Gaspin C, Guichard C, Klopp C, Labadie K,
Lalanne C, Le Clainche I, Lepl e JC, Le Provost G, Leroy
T, Lesur I, Martin F, Mercier J, Michotey C, Murat
F, Salin F, Steinbach D, Faivre-Rampant P, Wincker
P, Salse J, Quesneville H, Kremer A. 2016. Decoding
the oak genome: public release of sequence data, assem-
bly, annotation and publication strategies. Molecular
Ecology Resources 16: 254-265Leroy T, Roux C, Villate L, Bod en es C, Romiguier J,
Paiva JAP, Dossat C, Aury JM, Plomion C, Kremer A.
2016. Extensive recent secondary contacts between four
European white oak species. New Phytologist (In press)
Rellstab C, Zoller S, Walthert L, Lesur I, Bod en es C,
Pluess AR, Sperisen C, Kremer A, Gugerli F. 2016.
Signatures of local adaptation in candidate genes of
oaks (Quercus spp.) in respect to present and fu-
ture climatic conditions. Molecular Ecology (doi:
10.1111/mec.13889)
See also: http://www.oakgenome.fr/?page id\ crmat
<cyril.rmat@inra.fr >
CarnegieMuseumNatHist
CuratorAnthropocene
Carnegie Museum of Natural History - Post-Doctoral
Fellow and Interim Curator for the Anthropocene
Carnegie Museum of Natural History invites applica-
tions for a Post-Doctoral Fellow and Interim Curator
for the Anthropocene. The primary responsibility for
this position will be to work with the Director, museum
senior leadership and science sta, as well as Carnegie
Museums of Pittsburgh central sta to develop an intel-
lectual and infrastructural framework for the new Center
for Anthropocene Studies. The Center is intended to be
interdisciplinary in its foci across art and the humanities
with science at its core. The successful candidate will
demonstrate a plan for developing a research program
that results in publications of high quality and visibility.
The position has a limited term of two years, although
there is the possibility of extension if the fellow/curator
is successful and further funding is developed.
Qualications: Ph.D. in an area embedded in or cognate
to Anthropocene science, while demonstrating a broad
awareness of cultural, historical and artistic themes as-
sociated with advanced considerations of Anthropocene
themes. Prior postdoctoral training or equivalent pro-
fessional experience is desirable.
For additional information, please visit:
www.carnegiemuseums.org/hr and search \an-
thropocene". To apply, a letter of application, CV,
contact information for three references, statement
of research, and statement of curatorial philosophy
(including the curator's role in broader museum eorts)
should be emailed to halea@carnegiemnh.org. Review
of applications will begin February 1, 2017.116 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is one of the four
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, with a mission in orig-
inal scientic research, preservation of collections, and
public science education and engagement. The museum
has approximately 22 million specimens and artifacts
in its collections, making it the 5th largest natural his-
tory collection in the US. With access to our 2,200-acre
Powdermill Nature Reserve and through collaborations
with museum sta, adjacent universities, and museums
throughout the world, there is an exceptional opportu-
nity to develop the Carnegie Museum of Natural History
as a vibrant hub in a knowledge and inquiry network en-
gaged in understanding human existence, responsibility,
and capability at the dawn of the age of the human.
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh is rmly committed to
equal employment opportunity for all persons without
regard to race, color, religion, creed, national origin,
ancestry, sex, gender identity or expression, age, marital
status, sexual orientation, citizenship status, veteran
status, non job-related disability or genetic information
as those terms are dened under applicable law.
The information contained in this message and/or at-
tachments is intended only for the person or entity
to which it is addressed and may contain condential
and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission,
dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action
in reliance upon, this information by persons or entities
other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you
received this in error, please contact the sender and
delete the material from any system and destroy any
copies. Any views expressed in this message are those
of the individual sender.
\Hale, Alison" <HaleA@CarnegieMnh.Org >
CharlesU Prague
SexChromosomeEvolution
CharlesU Prague.Postdoc.SexChromosomeEvolution
Postdoc position in Evolution of sex chromosomes in
squamate reptiles
One postdoc position is currently open in the research
team of Dr. Lukas Kratochvil, Department of Ecology,
Charles University, Czech Republic. The successful can-
didate will join our current projects on the study of the
evolution of sex chromosomes in squamate reptiles with
molecular and cytogenetic methods.
Project description: The aim of the project is to ex-amine the evolution of sex chromosomes and their ho-
mology based on gene content in selected lineages of
squamate reptiles (eg. lizards and snakes). Squamate
reptiles possess lineages with either XX/XY, ZZ/ZW
or temperature-dependent sex determination. Despite
the recent advances in the eld, our knowledge about
their sex determination systems and sex chromosome
homology is limited only to few groups of reptiles (eg.
iguanas, advanced snakes), while the majority of reptil-
ian lineages remain unstudied. The successful candidate
will collaborate with the other team members and will
study the evolution of sex chromosomes in a multidi-
rectional approach, involving cytogenetics (eg. FISH,
chromosome painting), molecular genetics (eg. qPCR)
and bioinformatics (eg. transcriptomics). More informa-
tion about our current research activity can be found
in the following publications:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27037610
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26702042
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24433436
Qualications: The ideal candidate would have a Ph.D.
diploma and proven expertise in a related eld of biol-
ogy: evolutionary biology, cytogenetics, phylogenetics,
genomics and/or bioinformatics. Previous experience
in herpetology is not necessary. The applicant should
be scientically motivated, have good communication
skills and demonstrate publication record in reputable
journals. High standard of spoken and written English
is required.
Application: The applicant should send a short letter
explaining his/her background and motivation, full CV
and contact information for two references to both Dr.
Michail Rovatsos (michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz) and
Dr. Lukas Kratochvil (lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz).
The successful candidate will be nancially supported,
with a salary sucient for a comfortable living in Prague,
Czech Republic, relevant to qualications, which will be
further increased based on performance.
Prague is often included in the top lists for best cities,
considering safety, culture, popular travel destinations
and quality of living. Some useful links:
Charles University website: http://www.cuni.cz/-
UKEN-1.html Faculty of Science, Charles University:
www.natur.cuni.cz/en Student life in Prague: http://-
studyinprague.cz/about-prague/student-life-in-prague/
Cost of living: http://www.studyin.cz/living-costs/
Tourism guide: http://www.myczechrepublic.com/-
prague/ The position is valid until a suitable candidate
is selected and the starting date is exible, with
closest date 1/1/2017. Suitable candidates will
be interviewed until January 31th 2017. For any
additional information, do not hesitate to write anJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 117
email (michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz).
Michail Rovatsos
Researcher Department of Ecology Faculty of Science
Charles University Vinicna 7, 128 43 Praha 2 Czech
Republic
Michail Rovatsos
Researcher Department of Ecology Faculty of Science
Charles University Vinicna 7, 128 43 Praha 2 Czech
Republic
\Michail Rovatsos, Ph.D."
<michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz >
ColoradoStateU
PlantGeneticsEvolution
The Sloan Lab at Colorado State University has funding
to support a postdoctoral researcher or masters-level
research associate in plant molecular genetics and evo-
lution. Specic project goals are exible and may be
tailored to the skills and interests of the researcher.
The overarching theme in our lab is the evolution of
mitonuclear and plastid-nuclear interactions. We are in-
terested in someone to build o of ongoing and planned
experiments that are investigating these interactions
through genetic manipulations in both model and non-
model plant systems. More information about our lab
is available here:
https://sites.google.com/site/danielbsloan/home
We are particularly interested in researchers with expe-
rience in genetic transformation and crossing techniques
in plant model systems. Interests and experience in com-
putational biology, including genomics, molecular evolu-
tion, and population genetics are also desirable. Above
all, we are seeking researchers who are enthusiastic about
answering biological and evolutionary questions and who
will contribute to a positive and collaborative research
environment.
Start date is exible but preferably by July 1, 2017.
For more information or to discuss opportunities, please
e-mail Dan Sloan (dbsloan@rams.colostate.edu) and in-
clude a CV, a very brief statement of research/career
goals, and contact information for at least two refer-
ences. Inquiries will be evaluated on a rolling basis until
a candidate is identied.
Dan Sloan Assistant Professor Department of BiologyColorado State University Fort Collins, CO 80523 USA
dbsloan@rams.colostate.edu
CzechRepublic
RepeatomeBioinformatics
In the project \Repeatome dynamics in the earliest
evolutionary stages of apomictic plants" funded by the
Czech Science Foundation, a
Postdoc Position in Bioinformatics
is available at the Institute of Botany (www.ibot.cas.cz/-
en/) of the Czech Academy of Sciences. Project begin
is January 2017; the position is for 3 years and shall
be lled as quickly as possible, with an option to be
prolonged after the end of the project.
The project is aimed at a better understanding of mech-
anisms underlying the transition from sexual to apomic-
tic reproduction. It brings together an interdisciplinary
and international team of researchers who will tackle a
complex biological question from various angles (cyto-
genetics, genomics, embryology, reproductive biology).
Tasks involve the de novo identication and quantica-
tion of genomic repeats from high-throughput sequenc-
ing data in the non-model hawkweed genus Hieracium
in order to investigate genome repatterning following
hybridization. The successful applicant will be involved
in experimental design and statistical analysis, collabo-
rate with wet-bench biologists and help to integrate the
results into the bigger picture.
Prerequisites are a PhD in Biology, Genomics, Bioin-
formatics or a related eld with at least two years of
experience in Bioinformatics (preferably with a back-
ground in eukaryote genomes), a profound interest in
the topic, the capacity to work independently as well
as to contribute creatively to a team, and the proven
ability to publish in renowned IF journals.
We oer an excellent infrastructure and a friendly work-
ing atmosphere in a marvellous environment (Pruhon-
ice Park, UNESCO World Heritage Site, http://-
www.pruhonickypark.cz/en/the-pruhonice-park/) in the
close vicinity of Prague and an option to become engaged
in the future establishment of a central Bioinformatics
unit at the Institute of Botany.
For more information, please contact Dr. Judith Fehrer
(fehrer@ibot.cas.cz). Applications containing a moti-
vation letter, a short CV, a full publication list and118 EvolDir January 1, 2017
two references should be sent until 15. January to
fehrer@ibot.cas.cz.
Dr. Judith Fehrer Institute of Botany Czech Academy
of Sciences Z amek 1 25243 Pruhonice near Prague Czech
Republic
phone +420 271015415 fax +420 267750031
fehrer@ibot.cas.cz
Fehrer Judith <Judith.Fehrer@ibot.cas.cz >
DalhousieU MicrobialGeneTransfer
11 December 2016
Dear colleagues,
The Archibald Lab is hiring a postdoc to work on ex-
perimental and computational aspects of gene transfer
in microbial eukaryotes. If you know of anyone please
feel free to forward this message.
The lab is located in the Department of Biochemistry
& Molecular Biology at Dalhousie University in Hal-
ifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. The successful applicant
will join an internationally recognized research team
embedded within Dalhousie's collaborative and vibrant
Centre for Genomics & Evolutionary Bioinformatics
(www.cgeb.dal.ca). Expertise in comparative genomics
and/or molecular biology is essential.
Interested persons can contact John Archibald for more
information (john.archibald[at]dal.ca) or directly sub-
mit (i) a complete CV and (ii) the names and contact
information of three academic references.
best wishes,
john
John M. Archibald, Ph.D. Distinguished University Re-
search Professor Senior Fellow, Canadian Institute for
Advanced Research, Program in Integrated Microbial
Biodiversity Department of Biochemistry & Molecular
Biology, Dalhousie University Sir Charles Tupper Medi-
cal Building 5850 College Street PO BOX 15000 Halifax,
Nova Scotia, B3H 4R2, Canada Phone: (902) 494-2536
Fax: (902) 494-1355 Webpage: http://myweb.dal.ca/-
jmarchib/ One Plus One Equals One: Symbiosis and
the Evolution of Complex Life Oxford University Press,
Paperback September 2016
John Archibald <John.Archibald@Dal.Ca >ETHZurich
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
ThePathogen Ecology group at ETH Zu Irich are look-
ing for a highly motivated postdoctoral researcher to
work on a project funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation.
Theproject combines (i) experimental evolution of bac-
teria exposed to viruses and/or antibiotics, (ii) quanti-
tative analysis of natural and clinical isolates and (iii)
development of an experimental system for culturing,
manipulating and analyzing enteric bacteria ('model
gut'). The postdoc will focus on the 'model gut' sub-
project. Therefore advanced knowledge of evolutionary
microbiology, bacteria-virus interactions and/or gas-
trointestinal microbiology will be advantageous. Devel-
opment of this subproject will be done in collaboration
with the group of Angus Buckling (University of Exeter,
UK). The postdoc will also interact with group members
working on other subprojects and have the opportunity
to develop new research projects.
Ourgroup is part of the Institute of Integrative Biol-
ogy (IBZ) in the Department of Environmental Systems
Science at ETH Zu Irich. The institute has three main
research themes: ecology, evolution and infectious dis-
eases.
Applicationdeadline: open until lled. Startingdate: as
soon as possible. Employmentterm: full time for two-
years. Salary:xed rate for ETH postdocs (86,300 chf
p.a. in the rst year).
Toapply send alex.hall@env.ethz.ch a single PDF le
with a one-page summary of your research interests
and motivation, a CV and publications list plus contact
details of three referees.
www.pe.ethz . alex.hall@env.ethz.chJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 119
FloridaStateU
EvolutionBehaviorMosquitosh
Postdoctoral Position, Indirect genetic eects in
mosquitosh Hughes and Travis Labs Florida State
University
We are seeking a full-time postdoctoral scholar to in-
vestigate indirect genetic eects and the maintenance
of genetic polymorphism in natural mosquitosh pop-
ulations. We currently have NSF funds to support a
postdoctoral research scholar for 2 years, with possibility
for extension beyond that. In addition to the funded
work, there will be opportunities to develop related
empirical or theoretical projects.
The selected postdoc will work at the main FSU campus
in Tallahassee, FL, USA, and in nearby eld sites. The
region is a hotspot for biodiversity and oers ready ac-
cess to diverse habitats including terrestrial, freshwater,
and marine ecosystems, many of which are relatively
undisturbed. The postdoc will work closely with both
PIs on the project (Joe Travis and Kim Hughes) and
with the other members of our labs. There will also
be opportunities to interact and collaborate with other
members of the Ecology and Evolution group at FSU.
This group includes 24 research-active faculty, and has
particular strengths in research at the interface of ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology.
Requirements: Ph.D. in a relevant eld, demonstrated
expertise in techniques such as DNA extraction, PCR,
and sequence or fragment-length based genotyping, ex-
cellent command of spoken and written English, and
experience in statistical analysis of complex phenotypic
or genetic data.
Additional valuable skills and experiences include: ex-
perience with paternity assignment, experience working
with live vertebrates in lab or eld settings, familiarity
with quantitative-genetic methods, expertise in con-
structing high-throughput sequencing libraries, expe-
rience collecting and analyzing behavioral data, and
experience mentoring undergraduate research students.
Florida State University, the Department of Biological
Science and the Hughes and Travis labs are interested
in candidates who are committed to the highest stan-
dards of scholarship and professional activities, and to
the development of a climate that supports equality
and diversity. Florida State University is an armativeaction/equal opportunity employer.
Salary: $47,658- $49,000 USD plus benets
Start date: Position available Feb 1, 2017 or until lled.
Evaluations of applications will begin Jan. 12, 2017
Duration: The appointment can be up to 2 years,
but will be made on a yearly basis given satisfactory
progress.
To ensure full consideration please email the follow-
ing to Kim Hughes (kahughes@bio.fsu.edu) or to Joe
Travis (travis@bio.fsu.edu) by Jan 12, 2016: (1) a cover
letter, (2) an up-to-date CV, and (3) names of 3 men-
tors/colleagues from whom you can request letters of
support. The cover letter should describe your previ-
ous research and training and your qualications for
the position as described in this advertisement. The
letter should also explain how this postdoctoral posi-
tion will further your long-term research/career aspi-
rations. The email subject line should read: \Post-
docGambusiaProject".
Kimberly A. Hughes Professor and President, Society for
the Study of Evolution Department of Biological Science
Florida State University 319 Stadium Drive Tallahassee,
Florida 32306-4295
Ph: 850-645-8553 FAX: 850-645-8447 Oce: 4062 King
Life Sciences Building http://www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-
hughes.php \Please note: Florida has very broad pub-
lic records laws. Most written communications to or
from state/university employees and students are public
records and available to the public and media upon
request. Your e-mail communications may therefore be
subject to public disclosure."
Kimberly Hughes <kahughes@bio.fsu.edu >
Geneva
EvolutionaryEcologyParasites
Subject area
Evolutionary and ecological processes driving parasite
speciation
Description of the project:
This is a project on how species radiations aect inter-
specic interactions, such as host- parasite associations.
Analogous to how a diverse habitat can support a di-
verse community of free-living species and lead to species
radiations, a species-rich or genetically divergent pool120 EvolDir January 1, 2017
of hosts may provide variable but resource-rich habitats
that may promote diverse parasite communities and in
some instances, parasite species radiations.
The aims of this project are: 1. to test general ecology
theory regarding whether parasite diversity follows the
habitat heterogeneity hypothesis 2. to develop general
theory for the interplay of ecological and evolutionary
processes promoting parasite diversication in an inter-
species interaction context
The model system used to address the theoretical frame-
work above will be whiteshes and their parasite com-
munities in Swiss and Scandinavian lakes.
A major part of the research will involve eldwork in
Norwegian and Swiss lakes, parasitological examination
of sh and morphological characterisation of parasites.
This will be followed by community ecology analyses,
extensive population genomic [single- nucleotide poly-
morphisms (SNPs)] of parasites and phylogeography
analyses.
The position involves working closely with eld assis-
tants and students at dierent institutions.
Skills desired and experience
The candidate will hold a PhD in biological science and
possess the following skills and experience (E=essential,
D~Asirable):
-
Fieldwork, preferably in freshwater environments (E) -
Knowledge of parasitology and parasitological dissec-
tions (E) -
Library preparation for RAD-seq or other next genera-
tion technologies (E) -
SNP analyses, bioinformatics, data management and
building workows (D) -
Experience with population genetics and phylogenetics
analyses (E) -
Experience in using R for statistical analyses (D) -
Experience using cloud computing (D) -
Good interpersonal skills (E) -
Able to deal eectively with international and national
collaborations (E) -
Demonstrated experience in management (D)
Job position
Postdoctoral researcher based at the Natural History
Museum of Geneva, in close collaboration with the
UNIGE and EAWAG. Duration: Up to 2 years (1 year,
renewable once); salary 80K CHF/year. Open to CHand EU citizens.
Starting date 1 July, 2017
How to apply
Please send a motivation letter together with your full
CV and the name and contact details of two preferred
referees to Isabel.Blasco-Costa[at]ville-ge[dot]ch by Jan-
uary 20, 2017
isa.blasco.costa@gmail.com
Glasgow Evodevo Epigenetics
We seek a theory-driven postdoc to join us to focus on
questions related to evolutionary developmental biol-
ogy and genomics including the genetic and epigenetic
basis of phenotypic change. We oer a highly interdis-
ciplinary group and generous funding support from a
recently awarded NERC Highlight topics grant to Dr
Kevin J. Parsons (PI), Prof. Neil B. Metcalfe, Dr Shaun
S. Killen and Dr Jan Lindstrom.
The project provides an opportunity to take evo-devo
and genomics in a new direction by investigating the
impact that long-term increases in temperature can
have on evolution. The postdoc will be in charge of
leading and applying large-scale population genomic
and QTL mapping approaches to sticklebacks that have
evolved within geothermally-heated and ambient tem-
perature locations in Iceland. A substantial portion
of this research will also involve the use of genomics
to understand patterns of methylation in response to
temperature in both wild and lab-reared populations.
While these genomic approaches will be used, the lab
is phenotype-rst orientated and works at the intersec-
tions of ecology, evolution, physiology, and development.
The postdoc will therefore also have the opportunity to
take part in the design of experiments used to assess
developmental changes in a range of phenotypes.
You will have previous postdoc experience or be near
to completing a relevant PhD and be experienced with
genomics, developmental genetics, and/or epigenetics.
Interest and experience with questions surrounding par-
allel evolution and phenotypic plasticity would be an
asset. As part of a team funded by this NERC grant, you
will work closely with another postdoctoral scientist who
will focus on running lab experiments and behavioural
assays, and a full-time technician who will aid in the
running of a breeding programme and lab work.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 121
Passion for research, team spirit and enthusiasm are
essential. Our team is multidisciplinary with additional
major projects funded by the European Research Coun-
cil (ERC) and NERC. Additional PhD student projects
in the lab of the PI involve collaborations with engi-
neers, statisticians, and physicists demonstrating the
highly active and collaborative research environment
in the University of Glasgow. Further information on
the post can be obtained from Dr. Kevin Parsons
(kevin.parsons@glasgow.ac.uk). Formal applications are
due by January 8th, 2017, and can be made at:
reference # 015558 http://www.gla.ac.uk/about/jobs/-
vacancies/ Dr. Kevin Parsons Lecturer, Institute of
Biodiversity, Animal Health, and Comparative Medicine
University of Glasgow https://sites.google.com/-
site/kevinparsonslab/home http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
researchinstitutes/bahcm/sta/kevinparsons/ Dr.
Kevin Parsons Lecturer, Institute of Biodiver-
sity, Animal Health, and Comparative Medicine
University of Glasgow https://sites.google.com/site/-
kevinparsonslab/home/people http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
researchinstitutes/bahcm/sta/kevinparsons/ Kevin
Parsons <Kevin.Parsons@glasgow.ac.uk >
GreifswaldU
EvolutionaryBiomathematics
Dear Evoldir members,
I currently invite applications for a postdoc position in
my working group, starting asap, but the starting date
is negotiable.
It is a 100% position (paid according to German TVL
13) with 4 hours per week teaching obligation. If the
candidate prefers a part-time position with reduced
teaching load, this would also be possible. Teaching
may include lectures if the candidate wants to gain ex-
perience, but will mainly consist of tutorials (4 hours
per week amount to two tutorials per week during the
semester; no teaching is done during the long summer
break from mid-July to mid-October and from the end
of January to early April).
Research in my group is focussed on biomathematics
with a special interest in mathematical phylogenetics
and population genetics, i.e. evolutionary research from
a mathematical perspective. The ideal candidate has
a strong background in mathematics and / or theoret-
ical computer science, preferably with some biologicalpre-knowledge (and, if not, at least a strong interest in
biology in general and evolution in particular). Mathe-
matical areas needed for our research include, but are
not limited to, graph theory, probability theory, com-
binatorics and complexity theory. Programming skills
in at least one mathematical programming language
(such as Mathematica, Maxima, Matlab, Maple or R)
are required; additional programming skills are also
desirable.
Knowledge of the German language is desirable, but is
not a must at rst (teaching at the Master's level can be
done in English). Greifswald university oers aordable
German language courses for researchers. However, the
candidate must be procient in both written and spoken
English.
The oer: - PostDoc position for 2 years with a possible
extension if funding permits.
- No pre-set xed project, i.e. the work focus is ne-
gotiable and will be chosen to match the candidate's
interests and ideas. - 4 hours teaching duties per week. -
The application deadline is January 31st 2017 (starting
date exible, but as soon as possible), but the oer will
be kept open until a suitable candidate is found.
- A small but highly specialized maths institute with a
renowned research focus on biomathematics, located in
Greifswald in North-Eastern Germany, directly at the
Baltic Sea with lots of nearby beaches and generally
good living quality.
For more information, do not hesitate to con-
tact me: mareike.scher@uni-greifswald.de or
to read the ocial job oer online (in Ger-
man): https://www.uni-greifswald.de/universitaet/-
information/stellen ausschreibungen/oeentliche-
stellenausschreibungen/wissenschaftliches-
personal/institut-fuer-mathematik-und-informatik-
16sa34/
Please send your applications electronically to
mareike.scher@uni-greifswald.de IN A SINGLE PDF
FILE and refer to job number 16/SA34.
Best wishes,
Mareike Fischer
Prof. Dr. Mareike Fischer Biomathematics and Stochas-
tics Institute for Mathematics & Computer Science
Ernst-Moritz-Arndt University Walther-Rathenau-Str.
47 Oce 3.15 17487 Greifswald GERMANY +49 (0)
3834 86 46 43 mareike.scher@uni-greifswald.de
Mareike Fischer <email@mareikescher.de >122 EvolDir January 1, 2017
IndianaU
BehavioralPlasticityEvolution
Postdoc: IndianaU.BehavioralPlasticityEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Kimberly Rosvall, Department of Biology, Indiana Uni-
versity, Bloomington. Our lab investigates the genomic
and physiological bases of behavioral plasticity, and how
these mechanisms change over evolutionary time. We
approach these questions by combining conceptual and
analytical tools from animal behavior, neuroendocrinol-
ogy, evolutionary ecology, physiology, and genomics,
almost entirely by studying free-living songbirds. We
are especially interested in hormonal and genomic mech-
anisms of social competition and aggression, how they
dier between males and females, and how they are
shaped by experience. We are seeking a candidate to
develop an original research project within these areas
of research.
For the position, we seek a collegial and intellectually
driven individual with a recent Ph.D. in animal behav-
ior, behavioral genomics, behavioral endocrinology, or a
related eld. A strong background in animal behavior
is essential. Experience with RNA/DNA extraction,
qPCR, avian neuroanatomy, EIA, avian eld ecology,
and/or genomic/informatic skills is strongly desired, but
relevant training will be provided as necessary. The po-
sition will be renewed annually for two years, assuming
sucient progress, with the potential to extend for a
third year. Salary will be commensurate with experience,
and full benets are included.
To apply, please submit (i) a letter of application, (ii) a
full CV, (iii) a statement of research interests, and (iv)
contact information for three references electronically to
http://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/3259 or send
cover letter, C.V., statement of research interests &
contact info for 3 references to Kimberly Rosvall, 1001
E. 3rd St., Bloomington, IN 47405 (email preferred:
krosvall@indiana.edu).
Review of applications will start January 22, 2017 and
will continue until the position is lled. The exact start
date is exible, but could begin as early as March 2017
or as late as Fall 2017. Inquiries about the position can
be directed to Kimberly Rosvall (krosvall@indiana.edu).
Additional information about research in the Rosvall lab
can be found at http://www.indiana.edu/ ~krosvlab/ .Bloomington is a vibrant college town located in scenic
southern Indiana, close to several natural parks and
wilderness areas, and it enjoys a local culture exception-
ally rich in music, art, and theater. Indiana University is
an Equal Employment and Armative Action employer
and a provider of ADA services. All qualied applicants
will receive consideration for employment without re-
gard to age, ethnicity, color, race, religion, sex, sexual
orientation or identity, national origin, disability status,
or protected veteran status.
{ Kimberly Rosvall, Ph.D. Assistant Professor In-
diana University Jordan Hall A318A, 812-856-2375
http://www.indiana.edu/ ~krosvlab/ Kimberly Ros-
vall<krosvall@indiana.edu >
LeedsU PlantFungiSymbiosis
Leeds University - Plant-fungal physiology
Fixed Term for 3 years, latest start date 16 January
2017 Project Title: Shifting symbiotic scenarios at the
dawn of land plant- fungus associations
We are looking for a highly motivated and enthusiastic
postdoctoral researcher for this exciting NERC-funded
post as part of a multidisciplinary team of scientists from
the University of Leeds, Kew Royal Botanic Gardens,
the Natural History Museum in London, University of
Sheeld and the Sainsbury Laboratory in Cambridge.
Working as a key member of the research team, you will
be based in the laboratory of Dr Katie Field (School of
Biology) and undertake cutting-edge research to uncover
the functioning of symbiotic fungal associations in early
diverging clades of land plants. You will be responsi-
ble for growing and maintaining plants in controlled
environment growth chambers and in axenic/monoxenic
cultures, managing experiments using isotope tracers
and analysing large biological datasets. You will be
highly motivated and be able to manage multiple tasks,
with a strong ability to assimilate and evaluate the rele-
vant literature and write high quality, scientic papers.
You will have a PhD (or be close to completion) in
plant science or plant/mycorrhizal physiology or a re-
lated discipline. You should have strong analytical and
experimental skills and have experience in plant biology
and physiology and/or biochemistry. You must have the
ability to work well independently and as part of team,
together with excellent time management, laboratory
and communication skills.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 123
Informal enquiries may be made to Dr Katie Field, tel
+44 (0)113 343 2849, email K.Field@leeds.ac.uk
Interviews to held on the 5 or 6 January 2017
https://jobs.leeds.ac.uk/vacancy.aspx?ref=-
FBSBY1058 \m.bidartondo@imperial.ac.uk"
<m.bidartondo@imperial.ac.uk >
LundU EvolutionaryBiology
Dear all,
A 12 month position as a research in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy is open at Lund University. Topic: Evolution in
variable environments, Phenology in interactive commu-
nities
Please nd more details here: https://-
lu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:124855/
Best, J orgen Ripa
J orgen Ripa Theoretical Population Ecology and
Evolution Group Dept. of Biology, Lund University,
Sweden S olvegatan 37, SE-223 62 Lund, Sweden
phone: +46-46-222 3770, +46-70-999 3570 email:
jorgen.ripa@biol.lu.se <mailto:jorgen.ripa@biol.lu.se >
www: http://www.biology.lu.se/jorgen-ripa J orgen
Ripa<jorgen.ripa@biol.lu.se >
MonashU MitochondrialGenomics
Postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics / evolu-
tionary ecology the role of the mitochondrial DNA in
evolutionary adaptation.
Monash University Melbourne Australia
The Opportunity
Research in Damian Dowling's laboratory is focused on
the role the mitochondrial genome plays in evolutionary
adaptation and in the evolution of sex dierences. Ma-
ternal inheritance of the mitochondrial genome renders
the mitochondrial DNA vulnerable to the accumulation
of mutations that are harmful to males, but neutral or
benecial to females.
We seek a talented and highly-motivated postdoctoral
researcher to join our laboratory group, to study the con-tribution that mitochondrial genetic variation makes to
mediating sex-specic trajectories of life-history evolu-
tion. The project will integrate experimental techniques
in evolutionary ecology, genomics and evolutionary phys-
iology.
As the successful candidate, you will have a PhD degree,
a record of publication in international journals, and
strong quantitative or bioinformatic skills. You will have
opportunities to develop and pursue your own research
interests within the bounds of the advertised project,
and to co-supervise undergraduate and Master's level
research projects within the Dowling group.
The position is a full-time, xed-term appointment avail-
able for 24 months. Flexible working arrangements may
be negotiated.
The job description, complete with the position descrip-
tion, and instructions on how to apply, can be found
at:
http://careersmanager.pageuppeople.com/513/cw/-
en/job/555895/research-fellow-mitochondrial-genetic-
variation Please direct enquiries to Dr Damian
Dowling
damian.dowling@monash.edu
The closing date for applications is Wednesday 18th
January 2017, 11:55 pm AEDT.
Information about Damian Dowling's lab is available
at:
http://www.damiandowlinglab.com/index.html Five
publications from our lab that are relevant to this posi-
tion:
1. Innocenti P, Morrow EH, Dowling DK (2011) Ex-
perimental support for a sex-specic selective sieve in
mitochondrial genome evolution. Science 332, 845-848.
2. Reinhardt K, Dowling DK, Morrow EH (2013) Mito-
chondrial replacement, evolution, and the clinic. Science
341, 1345-1346.
3. Camus MF, Wolf, JBW, Morrow EH, Dowling DK
(2015) Single nucleotides in the mtDNA sequence mod-
ify mitochondrial molecular function and are associated
with sex-specic eects on fertility and aging. Current
Biology 25, 2717-2722.
4. Camus MF, Clancy DJ, Dowling DK (2012) Mito-
chondria, maternal inheritance and male aging. Current
Biology 22, 1717-1721.
5. Yee WKW, Sutton KL, Dowling DK (2013) In vivo
male fertility is aected by naturally occurring mito-
chondrial haplotypes. Current Biology 23, R55-R56.
Information about Monash University124 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Currently ranked 74th in the Times Higher Education
World University Rankings, Monash University is a
member of Australia's \Group of Eight" a coalition
of research-intensive universities, and is internation-
ally recognized for excellence in research and teaching.
The School of Biological Sciences ( http://monash.edu/-
science/about/schools/biological-sciences/) is home to
a collegial and world class research environment, with
key strengths in evolutionary ecology and genomics.
Melbourne
Monash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant cultural and
recreational centre, and is consistently rated one of the
world's most liveable cities ( http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/World's most livable cities)
\damian.dowling@monash.edu"
<damian.dowling@monash.edu >
OIST Japan
InsectEvolutionAndGenomics
The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Gradu-
ate University (OIST) is a model for change in education
and research with the best international graduate stu-
dents, working side by side with world-class faculty in
modern well-equipped laboratories. Beautifully situ-
ated on the island of Okinawa, OIST relies on a cross-
disciplinary approach, with an emphasis on creativity
and exchange, to oer unique, individualized graduate
training. OIST is a university with no departments,
eliminating articial barriers between people working
in dierent elds, but many nationalities, with students
and faculty being attracted from all over the world. Con-
centrating initially on Neuroscience, Molecular Sciences,
Mathematical Sciences, Environmental and Ecological
Sciences and Physical Sciences, OIST is bringing some
of the best brains in the world to Okinawa to transform
the way science and education is done in the global
academic world.
Position summary:
The Evolutionary Genomics Unit is seeking for a post-
doctoral researcher with skills in insect ecology and
evolution, and with ability to analyze high through-
put sequencing data. The researcher will work around
on one or more of these promising topics: molecular
evolution of the symbiosis between insects and microor-
ganisms, molecular phylogenetic of insects, historical
biogeography of termites, and molecular mechanisms ofinsect defense.
Position:
The Evolutionary Genomics Unit is a research group
recently established at OIST with interests in evolution
of insects in general. Our main research topics include
molecular evolution of the symbiosis between insects
and microorganisms, molecular phylogenetic of insects,
historical biogeography of termites, and molecular mech-
anisms of insect defense. We address all these themes
using high throughput sequencing. We are looking for
a postdoctoral candidate with extensive experience in
high throughput sequencing and who is keen to work
on one of our insect models: cockroaches or termites.
The candidate is expected to work in collaboration with
members of the Evolutionary Genomics Unit, and she/he
will be given relative independence to develop her/his
own research within the frame of the Unit's research
agenda.
Some possible research topics include, but are not re-
stricted to:
- Studying the role of termite gut microorganisms in
soil-feeding termites using metagenomic analyses. Many
species of termites feed on soil but they are not studied
as intensively as wood-feeding termites. Metagenomics
can help us understanding the function of these microor-
ganisms.
- Studying the evolution of genome reduction in the cock-
roach endosymbiont Blattabacterium. Most cockroaches
are associated with Blattabacterium, a bacterium that
recycles nitrogen wastes and provides amino acid to their
host. The number of genes varies between strains of
Blattabacterium, and one question is therefore what are
the factors responsible of gene erosion in some strains?
- Studying the historical biogeography of termites using
molecular phylogenies. Termites are distributed world-
wide and often make up a large part of animal biomass
in the tropics. We are studying the origin of their dis-
tribution using mitochondrial genome phylogenies, to
determine the timing and direction of their spread across
the globe.
Working Location:
Onna-son, Okinawa, Japan
Responsibilities:
1. Carrying out lab experiments
2. Data analysis
3. Writing papers
4. And possibly carrying out eldwork
Qualications:January 1, 2017 EvolDir 125
(Required)
1. Ph.D. in Biological Science, with relevant research
experience
2. Prociency in written and spoken English
3. Good track record of publications
4. Ability to analyze high throughput sequencing data
5. Highly motivated and with strong social skills
(Preferred)
1. Previous eldwork experience, especially of insect
sampling
2. Experience with insect breeding
Term:
Full-time, xed term appointment for 2 years. Contract
initially with 3 month probationary period (inclusive).
This contract may be renewed.
Working hours:
9:00-17:30 (Discretionary)
Compensation:
In accordance with the OIST Employee Compensation
Regulations
Benets:
- Relocation, housing and commuting allowances
- Annual paid leave and summer holidays
- Health insurance (Private School Mutual Aid http:/-
/www.shigakukyosai.jp/ ), welfare pension insurance
(kousei- nenkin), worker's accident compensation insur-
ance (roudousha-saigai-hoshou- hoken)
Submission Documents:
- Cover letter in English
- Curriculum vitae in English, including a list of publi-
cations
- Names and contact information of 3 ~5 referees, one of
which should be a previous employer
* Please be sure to indicate where you rst saw the job
advertisement.
Starting Date:
May-June, 2017
Application Due Date:
Applications are due by January 10, 2017
Application Address:
Please submit all required application materials by email
to:/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PasteurInst
BacterialEvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS IN MICROBIAL
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
Two postdoc positions for highly motivated and tal-
ented young researchers are available in the Microbial
Evolutionary Genomics unit (head: Eduardo Rocha) of
the Pasteur Institute, Paris, France. Our lab has been
at the forefront of the study of mobile genetic elements
(MGE) using comparative genomics and is part of the
C3BI ambitious program to create an interdisciplinary
center focusing on quantitative biology in the Institute.
Topic. The exact projects for these two postdoc po-
sitions are adaptable to the candidate's interests, but
should use comparative genomics, population genetics,
metagenomics, and/or phylogenomics to tackle: - What
do MGE bring to bacterial genomes in the short and
in the long term? - How to identify the mechanisms
of mobility and stabilization of MGE? - What is the
interplay between MGE and bacteria in microbiomes?
Representative publications: Nogueira, Curr Biol, 09;
Guglielmini, PLoS Genet, 11; Treangen, PLoS Genet,
11; Bobay, PNAS, 14; Remigi, PLoS Biol, 14; Oliveira,
PNAS, 16; Touchon, ISMEj, 16.
Proles. We invite young researchers with PhDs in do-
mains relating to bacterial evolution and genomics with
some computational or quantitative background, includ-
ing programming skills (shell, R, and/or Python), and
experience in large-scale sequence analysis. A taste for
collaborations and the ability to discuss with a variety
of researchers are strictly necessary.
Conditions. The positions are funded by ANR and
ERC projects. The salary corresponds to the standard
in France (2100 eto 2600 eafter tax, depending on the
experience), including extended health coverage. The
contracts will be for 18 months minimum, renewable
when successful. The candidates must have passed their
PhD less than 5 years ago. The position is available
immediately but the starting dates are negotiable up to
September the 1st of 2017.126 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Application: Send a single pdf document with a detailed
CV (2-3 pages, with lists of publications, presentations,
and computational skills), a cover letter explaining your
research interests, projects, and motivations to join us
(1-2 pages), and three references who we'll contact to
obtain advices on your application. Deadline: January
10th, 2017.
Contact: For information on how to contact
us and to know more of our work check the
lab web-site: https://research.pasteur.fr/en/team/-
microbial-evolutionary-genomics/ Eduardo Rocha
<erocha@pasteur.fr >
Rockville Maryland
PhylotasticProject
post-doc position with Phylotastic project (Rockville,
MD)
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Associate
position with the Stoltzfus group at the University of
Maryland Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology
Research (IBBR) in Rockville, MD.
While experts continue improving the Tree of Life, the
focus of the Phylotastic project (www.phylotastic.org)
is on getting this knowledge into the hands of scientists,
educators, and the general public, so that they can get
online species trees as easily as they get online driving
directions. Based on a design initially prototyped at a
NESCent hackathon, NSF has funded this project to
develop an open, distributed system of web services to
provide convenient, computable access to ToL knowl-
edge. The successful applicant will join a distributed
virtual team with key personnel from IBBR, NMSU,
UTK, OpenTree and GlobalNames. Responsibilities
will include software design, development, and evalua-
tion, with opportunities for research on topics such as
the quality and coverage of available phylogenetic and
taxonomic resources.
For the job requirements and application instructions,
please see https://ejobs.umd.edu/postings/48392 . The
position is available now: applications will be considered
immediately, until a suitable candidate if found. If the
aforementioned web site is still available, the position is
still open. Pre-submission inquiries to arlin@umd.edu
are encouraged.
Please feel free to redirect this message to anyone who
might be interested. Thanks,Arlin Stoltzfus
Arlin Stoltzfus (arlin@umd.edu) Research Biologist,
NIST; Fellow, IBBR; Adj. Assoc. Prof., UMCP
IBBR, 9600 Gudelsky Drive, Rockville, MD, 20850 tel:
240 314 6208; web: www.molevol.org Arlin Stoltzfus
<arlin@ibbr.umd.edu >
Rockville MD
MutationInformaticsEvol
The Stoltzfus group at IBBR is looking for a post-doc
interested in computational work in a relevant area
of molecular evolution, evolutionary genetics, or infor-
matics. This position is available through a compet-
itive fellowship oered by the US National Research
Council (http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/rap/).
Awardees must hold U.S. citizenship, and have held the
Ph.D. <5 years at time of application. The award is
very generous ( $67K plus $3K travel allowance), the
location is Rockville (MD), and the time-period is 2
years.
The application requires a brief research proposal that
reects a plan of your own, or a plan that we develop
together. Especially welcome are proposals that relate
to mutation-biased evolution, following previous work
[1-3], or anything that leverages a valuable unpublished
resource (some of it used in [2]) consisting of carefully
vetted data on tness eects of mutations from high-
throughput mutation-scanning studies (over 100K muta-
tions), classic DFE studies, and evolution experiments.
I welcome anything that supplements the Phylotastic
project [10] (http://www.phylotastic.org), particularly
a system to access fossil data and use them in calibra-
tions via methods such as [5]. I welcome proposals for
other computer-based work in molecular evolution or
evolutionary genetics [1-8].
The upcoming deadline for proposals is February 1, 2017
(there is another deadline August 1). If you are inter-
ested, contact me with a brief introduction, and we'll
go from there.
Arlin Stoltzfus (arlin.stoltzfus@nist.gov)
Research Biologist, NIST (Genome-scale Measurements;
Oce of Data & Informatics)
Fellow, IBBR; Adj. Assoc. Prof., UMCP; IBBR, 9600
Gudelsky Drive, Rockville, MD, 20850 tel: 240 314
6208; web: www.molevol.org 1. Stoltzfus A, McCan-
dlish DM. (in progress) Mutation-biased adaptation inJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 127
natural cases of parallel evolution.
2. Stoltzfus A, Norris RW. 2016. On the Causes
of Evolutionary Transition:Transversion Bias. Mol
Biol Evol 33:595-602.http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/-
content/33/3/595.abstract 3. Stoltzfus A, Yampolsky
LY: Climbing mount probable: mutation as a cause of
nonrandomness in evolution. The Journal of heredity
2009, 100(5):637-647. http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/-
content/100/5/637.full.pdf 4. Stoltzfus A: Construc-
tive neutral evolution: exploring evolutionary theory's
curious disconnect. Biology direct 2012, 7(1):35. http:/-
/www.biologydirect.com/content/7/1/35 5. Norris,
R., C.L. Strope, D.L. McCandlish, and A. Stoltzfus.
Bayesian priors for tree calibration: Evaluating two new
approaches based on fossil intervals. http://biorxiv.org/-
content/early/2015/01/24/014340 6. Stoltzfus A, Yam-
polsky LY: Amino Acid Exchangeability and the Adap-
tive Code Hypothesis. J Mol Evol 2007, 65(4):456-462.
7. Yu G, Stoltzfus A: Population diversity of ORFan
genes in E. coli. Genome Biology and Evolution 2012.
8. McCandlish, D. M., and A. Stoltzfus. 2014. Model-
ing Evolution using the Probability of Fixation: History
and Implications. Q Rev Biol. 89(3):225-52. http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25195318 9. Vos RA, et
al: NeXML: Rich, Extensible, and Veriable Represen-
tation of Comparative Data and Metadata. Systematic
Biology 2012, 61(4):675-689.
10. Stoltzfus, A., H. Lapp, N. Matasci, et al. 2013.
Phylotastic! Making tree-of-life knowledge accessible,
reusable and convenient. BMC Bioinformatics 14:158.
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/14/158 Ar-
lin Stoltzfus <arlin@ibbr.umd.edu >
Southampton UK 2
ModellingEvodevo
Postdoctoral Research Fellows in Modelling Evolution-
ary Processes (eco-evo-devo) (2 posts)
Dept Computer Science/Institute for Life Sciences Uni-
versity of Southampton, UK
We welcome applications for two postdoctoral re-
searchers in the area of 'evolutionary systems biology'
at the lab of Richard Watson at the University of
Southampton. Two positions are available, each for
a duration of two years, starting June 1st 2017.
The positions are part of a (7.7M) umbrella projectwhich aims to put to the test the predictions of the
extended evolutionary synthesis (Laland et al. 2015,
PRSB, 282:1813). The two positions available at
Southampton will build on recent developments uni-
fying evolutionary theory with learning theory (Watson
& Szathmary, 2016, TREE, 31(2), 147-157). This work
converts theoretical tools of learning systems, already
well-developed in computer science, to deepen and ex-
pand our understanding of natural evolution. Both
positions will use computational and/or mathematical
modelling to explore the adaptive capabilities of dif-
ferent functional processes and dierent assumptions
about the processes of and feedbacks within natural se-
lection: the selective conditions in which it takes place,
the variation on which it can act, and the heritability
of that variation. We focus on modelling how these
components of the Darwinian Machine (i.e. selection,
variation and inheritance) change over time as a func-
tion of past evolution. Themes addressed within these
projects include:
* The evolution of developmental organisations, plas-
ticity, and evolvability (evo-devo). * The evolution of
ecological organisations, collective function and niche
construction in ecosystems (evo-eco). * The evolution
of reproductive organisations and transitions in individ-
uality (evo-ego).
Co-investigators include John Odling-Smee (Oxford),
Michael Wade (Indiana), Andrew Gardner (St Andrews),
Charlie Cornwallis (Lund), Kevin Laland (St Andrews),
Gunter Wagner (Yale) and Tobias Uller (Lund). As a
part of this team, the candidates will also work closely
with several PhDs dedicated to this project and on
related projects.
The successful candidates will build mathemati-
cal/simulation models to develop our understanding
of how ecological, developmental and reproductive feed-
backs alter evolutionary dynamics and test the utility of
learning theory to characterise them. Appropriate skill
sets include gene-expression dynamics/gene-regulation
network modelling, ecological dynamics/community net-
work modelling, theoretical population genetics, math-
ematical modelling of biological evolution, social evo-
lution theory, comparative phylogenetics, theoretical
quantitative genetics, adaptive dynamics, evolutionary
game theory, computational individual-based modelling,
complex adaptive systems, algorithmic/functional mod-
elling of evolutionary adaptation.
Applicants must have a PhD in a relevant subject and
be capable of building bridges that link between evolu-
tionary biology and computer science. For example, i)
A PhD in theoretical evolutionary biology (e.g. evolu-
tionary systems biology, theoretical population genetics,128 EvolDir January 1, 2017
mathematical biology, social evolution theory), with
strong mathematical skills and experience in simulation
modelling/programming, or ii) A PhD in computer sci-
ence/maths/physics (e.g. complex systems/dynamical
systems modelling, machine learning, optimisation) with
strong knowledge/experience of working on applications
in theoretical evolutionary biology.
Applications must include a CV, publications list, the
names of three referees and a covering letter explaining
your current interests and relevant background.
Salary range 29,301 to 36,001 per annum, depending on
experience. Full Time Fixed Term 2 years Closing Date:
Sunday 29 January 2017 Reference: 811616FP
Further information: - http://users.ecs.soton.ac.uk/-
raw/PostDocAdvertWatsonEES.htm - https://-
jobs.soton.ac.uk/Vacancy.aspx?ref=3D811616FP Dr.
Richard A. Watson Associate Professor Institute for Life
Sciences/Electronics and Computer Science, University
of Southampton http://www.ecs.soton.ac.uk/people/-
raw R.A.Watson@soton.ac.uk
R.A.Watson@soton.ac.uk
TexasTechU PlantFungalInteractions
A Postdoctoral Research Associate positon is avail-
able in the Sharma Lab at Texas Tech University
in Lubbock, Texas, U.S.A. We seek a highly moti-
vated individual with a Ph.D. to participate in an
NSF funded project (http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward?AWD ID=1355155) that is exploring the
role of plant-fungal interactions in explaining plant
species distributions in a tropical rainforest in Costa
Rica. The research team includes scientists from the
University of New Mexico, the University of Hawaii, and
the University of Costa Rica. This position is based in
Lubbock, TX, but intense eld work will be required
during the rainy season in Costa Rica (typically 3-4
weeks per year).
Competitive candidates will possess the following at-
tributes: 1. A record of achievement in fungal molecular
ecology, orchid mycorrhizal ecology, metagenomics, com-
munity ecology, evolutionary ecology, and / or ecological
phylogenetics.
2. Extensive laboratory molecular ecology experience
and strong quantitative analytical skills (bioinformatics
and multivariate statistical analyses).3. Demonstrated prociency in communicating research
results (i.e., peer reviewed publications and scientic
presentations).
4. Strong time management and organizational skills,
with an ability to manage a number of competing prior-
ities.
5. Enthusiasm for intense work schedules in the labora-
tory and in challenging eld conditions. Strong capacity
to undertake lab work independently and also interact
productively with project PIs and personnel.
6. Leadership and initiative in developing creative and
relevant research proposals and projects.
Salary: Competitive and commensurate with experience
Duration: Two+ years, but contingent upon satisfactory
research performance.
Application: Please submit the following in a single
PDF le to jyotsna.sharma@ttu.edu. Subject line of the
e-mail and the PDF le name should read - 'Applicant
last name postdoc' 1. Cover letter 2. A brief description
of past research accomplishments and future research
goals (under two pages) 3. Curriculum Vitae along with
reprints of no more than four most relevant publications
4. Names and contact information for three academic
references, including the Ph.D. advisor.
Timeline: Review of applications will begin on 20 Jan-
uary 2017 and will continue until the position is lled.
The targeted start date is 15 March 2017, but is some-
what exible. Strong applicants will be contacted to
schedule an informal Skype interview.
\Sharma, Jyotsna" <jyotsna.sharma@ttu.edu >
UAngers France RosaBioinformatics
*Call for applications for a 17 months Postdoctoral Fel-
lowship on \Evolution of genomes in the genus /Rosa/"
at the Research Institute in Horticulture and Seeds
(Angers, France)*
//
A 17-months postdoctoral researcher position is
available at the University of Angers (France). The
project is a collaboration between the \Research
Institute of Horticulture and Seeds" in Angers, astride
two teams \Genetics and Diversity of Ornamentals"
(GDO, http://www6.angers-nantes.inra.fr/irhs eng/-
Research/GDO) and \Bioinformatics" (BioInfo,January 1, 2017 EvolDir 129
http://www6.angers-nantes.inra.fr/irhs eng/Research/-
BioInfo), and the group of Pr Thomas Debener from the
\Institute for Plant Genetics" at the Leibniz University
of Hannover (Germany; http://www.genetik.uni-
hannover.de/index.html?&L=3D1). The project will be
a bio-informatic analysis of the evolution of genomes
in the genus /Rosa/, at two levels: (/i/) the research
of structural variants (SVs), and (/ii/) the study of
the evolution of resistance gene families (see details
below). Applications are open for candidates who did
not have spent more than 12 months in France within
the last 3 years immediately prior to the expected date
of recruitment. The net salary (after taxes) is 2409.58
/month. The opportunity to apply for AgreenSkills
programmes (https://www.agreenskills.eu/) may allow
to increase this salary. The beginning of the contract is
expected for February or March 2017. The postdoctoral
researcher will be based in Angers, regularly cited
as the most pleasant city to live in France, and at
proximity to the Loire Valley. Travels are planned
between Angers and Hanover.
*Summary of the project: *The rose bush is the most
economically important ornamental plant and the model
plant for many studies about ornamental traits (ow-
ering, fragrance, disease resistance). The rose bush,
constituting the genus /Rosa/, has a complex evolu-
tionary history with interspecic hybridization events
and polyploidizations. Little information about these
events is presently available, mainly hypotheses drawn
from sparse molecular markers. Recently, as part of an
international consortium, co-coordinated by the GDO
team, the rst version of the genome sequence of a va-
riety of rose (/Rosa chinensis/ cv. 'Old Blush') has
been obtained. In this genomic context, we propose
to study the evolutionary history of the genus /Rosa/
by resequencing dierent species of the genus /Rosa/.
*The objective is to understand the evolution of genomes
in the genus /Rosa/*, and especially to focus on the
processes that led to the creation of wild species, includ-
ing polyploid ones, which are at the base of cultivated
modern roses. From short reads (paired-end) obtained
from dierent representative /Rosa/ species involved
in cultivated rose breeding, (/i/) the research of struc-
tural variants (SVs as insertions, deletions, duplications,
inversion, translocations ) , and (/ii/) the study of the
evolution of resistance gene families will be conducted.
//
*Mission of the postdoctoral fel-
low*://The//production of raw reads will be
done before the postdoc arrival. The hired postdoc
with a strong background in bioinformatics or genome
analysis will make a survey of the best methods to ana-
lyze structural variations in rose genomes. He/she//willthen be in charge of the computer bio-analyses to
research the structural variants and to study gene
family evolution.
*Expected skills: *The desired applicant is expected to
be a bioinformatician or a bioanalyst with an expertise
in genome assembly and genetics. Expertise in the detec-
tion of genomic rearrangements, identication of homol-
ogous relations within gene family and/or gene family
evolution study would be appreciated. Programming
skills for one or several languages are needed. Social
skills are also important for the success of interactions.
Applications should be sent by email to
jeremy.clotault@univ-angers.fr, fabrice.foucher@inra.fr,
debener@genetik.uni-hannover.de and include a letter of
motivation, a CV, and names and contact information
of three referees. *The dead line for application is
January 3 ^rd , 2017.***
\jeremy.clotault@univ-angers.fr" <jeremy.clotault@univ-
angers.fr >
UBristol EvolutioaryRescue
A 3-year NERC-funded postdoctoral position in plant
ecological genetics and evolutionary rescue available
at the University of Bristol, UK We are looking for
an enthusiastic postdoctoral researcher for a NERC
project on \evolutionary rescue and the limits of pheno-
typic plasticity", beginning in April 2017. This project
will transplant ecologically divergent but closely related
Senecio ragwort species on the slopes of Mount Etna,
Sicily.
This project is a new collaboration between the Univer-
sities of Bristol, Oxford, Napoli (Italy), Catania (Sicily)
and CNRS Montpellier.
It will combine extensive eld transplant experiments
with ecological and demographic analysis, quantitative
genetics, and transcriptomics, in order to develop and
test theory for the role of phenotypic plasticity in help-
ing or hindering evolutionary responses at ecological
margins.
The successful candidate will be based in Sicily for the
rst 15 months of the project, and then at the University
of Bristol. A major part of the research will involve the
extensive propagation and transplant of large numbers
of Senecio seedlings along an elevational gradient, moni-
toring their tness, and quantifying variation in their
traits and phenotypes. This will be followed by exten-130 EvolDir January 1, 2017
sive ecological and quantitative genetic analysis, and
transcriptomic analysis of the genomic basis of adaptive
and non-adaptive plastic responses.
The post will involve working closely with a eld assis-
tant based in Sicily, as well as a postdoctoral bioinfor-
matician based at Oxford, and a Bristol-based techni-
cian to assist with morphometric and molecular analysis.
Experience in extensive eld experiments (particularly
in plants), plant propagation and quantitative genetics
would be highly desirable. A passion for evolutionary
biology and the interaction between population genet-
ics and genomics with population ecology is essential.
Demonstrated experience in management, and pro-
ciency in Italian would also be a big advantage.
Applications are invited from applicants regardless of
their citizenship or country of origin.
http://www.bristol.ac.uk/jobs/nd/-
details.html?nPostingID5337&nPostingTargetID
019&option(&sortSC&respnr=1&
ID=Q50FK026203F3VBQBV7V77V83&JobNum102335&
Resultsperpage&lg=UK&mask=uobext The clos-
ing date for applications is 4th January, 2017
Please direct informal enquiries to Dr Jon Bridle
(jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk), Prof Simon Hiscock (si-
mon.hiscock@obg.ac.uk), or Prof Dmitry Filatov
(dmitry.latov@plants.ox.ac.uk) in the rst instance.
Dr Jon Bridle School of Biological Sciences
2A03, Life Sciences Building University of Bris-
tol, BS8 1TQ Tel. (+44) 117 394 1174 (in-
ternal 41174) jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/people/jon-r-bridle/ Jon
Bridle <Jon.Bridle@bristol.ac.uk >
UBritishColumbia TroutGenomics
Landscape Genomics Postdoc at UBC
A research team at the University of British Columbia's
Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Research Cen-
tre is seeking a postdoctoral researcher in landscape
genetics of native rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).
This project is part of a larger Genome Canada project
on genetics and physiology of adaptation to climate
change in rainbow trout, and the population genomics
component is in the labs of Eric Taylor and Michael
Whitlock. The landscape genomics component primarily
involves whole genome sequencing approaches to under-
standing the genomic basis of adaptation to features ofhabitat, but also to provide insights into phylogeography
and the inuence of watershed structure on population
subdivision in rainbow trout. A PhD in a related eld
with expertise in basic theory and bioinformatic analysis
of population genomics data is required. The position is
available for one year with renewal for up to three addi-
tional years. Salary is $55,000 per year plus benets. To
apply, please send a brief cover letter summarizing your
qualications for the position, a CV, and the names,
addresses, phone numbers and emails of three references.
Review of applications will begin January 16, 2017. Ad-
dress application materials to etaylor@zoology.ubc.ca
to whom any questions can also be addressed.
etaylor@zoology.ubc.ca
UCalifornia LosAngeles
CapuchinMonkeyEvol
Call for Postdoctoral Fellow Applications!
ISG Capuchin Genomics Post Doc Fellowship, 2017-2018
Application deadline is February 15, 2017
The UCLA Institute for Society and Genetics (ISG)
is recruiting a post-doctoral scholar with a proposed
start date of July 1, 2017, to help lead research on a
capuchin monkey comparative and population genomics
study funded in part by a FAPESP grant on \Pheno-
typic plasticity in robust capuchin monkeys (Sapajus):
eects of distinct ontogenetic trajectories and context-
dependent activation." This one-year position (renew-
able for one additional year pending positive review) is
for a researcher who can (1) engage in genomic and bioin-
formatics analyses of capuchin genomes to understand
evolutionary changes and functional dierences across
ten species and in comparisonto other Neotropical pri-
mates and more broadly; and (2) use recently available
techniques to design and implement a genome-wide sam-
pling approach for neutral and coding markers, to beused
for non-invasive genomic sampling for wild capuchin
monkey populations, in collaboration with Brazilian col-
leagues who will collect samples and perform sample
preparation and sequencing in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The
postdoc will lead population genomics analyses to test
hypotheses about phenotypic plasticity versus genetic
variation in individually identied wild capuchins, in
conjunction with an extensive behavioral dataset on
these populations.
We encourage applicants from elds in genetics, biomath-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 131
ematics, biological sciences and biological anthropology.
The most competitive candidates will have a strong
background in population or evolutionary genetics and
expertise acquired from working with NextGen sequenc-
ing platforms (e.g. Illumina) for sequence analysis in a
Unix environment. Background in computer sciences,
mathematics and/or bioinformatics is aplus, due to the
use of perl or python scripts and downstream analyses
using R. Brazilian Portuguese language skills preferred
but not required. This position is primarily based at
UCLA in Los Angeles, but a short eld research compo-
nent in Brazil would be a possibility for this position.
Candidates are expected to collaborate with Jessica
Lynch Alfaroand Patr cia Izar on the FAPESP-funded
project, producing publications and public presentations
related to capuchin functional and population genomics,
development, biology and behavior. Candidates will be
expected to actively participate in ISG activities, which
will include teaching or co-teaching one quarter-length
class (10 weeks) per year in the Human Biology and
Society undergraduate major (B.A. and B.S., course
can be cross-listed with another major; seminar format
with 15-20 students).
The salary is competitive and includes health insurance,
plus a $1500 stipend for conference fees, travel, research
equipment/supplies, and other approvedresearch-related
expenses. Salary will be determined based on experience
and percent time of the position. Eligibility: Applicants
who received the Ph.D. degree after September 2008, or
who will complete all Ph.D. requirements by June 30,
2017, are eligible to apply. Certication of completion
of Ph.D. degree requirements must be in hand at the
time of the appointment start.
Applicants are requested to submit a letter of appli-
cation, curriculum vitae, research statement, writing
sample, and the names and addresses of three references.
Please submit all applications and application mate-
rials online via UCLA's Academic Recruit Online at
the following URL: https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu/apply/-
JPF02742. Any questions about the position or the
application process may be addressed to Jessica Lynch
Alfaro (jlynchalfaro@g.ucla.edu[DEL: ). The research
statement should include an explanation of the can-
didate's research experience and interest in the topic,
as well as methodological orientation and skills. The
cover letter should include a description of a course the
candidate would be interested to teach in the Institute.
:DEL] The deadline for applying is February 15, 2017.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy, see: UC Nondiscrimination & Armative
Action Policy (http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct).
Application deadline is February 15, 2017
3D\ISGLogoAmisha" Administrative Assistant UCLA
Institute for Society and Genetics 621 Charles E. Young
Dr. South, 3360B LSB Los Angeles, CA 90095-7221
MC: 722105
Ph: 310-267-4990 Fax: 310-206-1880
Email: dshenise@socgen.ucla.edu
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
ComputationalBiology
Postdoctoral Fellow - Computational Biology / Bioin-
formatics / Viral Population Genetics : San Francisco,
CA, United States
Postdoctoral Fellow - Computational Biology / Bioin-
formatics / Viral Population Genetics
The Pillai Lab at Blood Systems Research Institute
(BSRI), (www.bsrisf.org), an aliate of the University
of California San Francisco (UCSF), is looking for a
highly motivated Postdoctoral Fellow with expertise in
computational biology, with special emphasis on phy-
logenetics, viral population genetics, transcriptomics,
and analysis of next generation sequence data. The
fellowship is focused on HIV cure research, and involves
extensive training within the UCSF Center for AIDS
Research (CFAR) and collaboration with the recently-
founded amfAR Institute for HIV Cure Research.
The ideal candidate will be interested in using a systems
biology approach to investigate the eects of host gene
expression patterns and viral genetic variation on HIV
pathogenesis and persistence in vivo.
RESPONSIBILITIES - Phylogenetic analysis of ultra-
deep HIV sequence data generated from clinical samples
- Analysis of RNA-sequencing data to characterize host132 EvolDir January 1, 2017
and viral gene expression patterns - Compilation and cu-
ration of next-generation sequence data - Computational
modeling of virus-host interactions
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS - Ph.D. degree in
bioinformatics, biostatistics, biology, computer science,
or related elds - Minimum two-year experience in
coding (python and R preferred) and expertise in
Unix/Linux environments. - Knowledge of applied statis-
tics - Minimum one year of basic biology knowledge. -
Highly motivated, quick learner.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS - Specic expertise
in deep sequencing genomics and genetic analysis - Back-
ground in computational virology - Familiarity with web
programming, Amazon cloud computing, SAS, SQL plus
- Expertise in data management and \Big Data" analyt-
ical approaches
EEO/Minorities/Females/Disabled/Veterans
Our organization is an equal employment/armative
action employer. If you need accommodation for any
part of the employment process because of a medical
condition or disability, please send an e-mail to accom-
modation@bloodsystems.org or call 1-844-220-2612 to
let us know the nature of your request. A represen-
tative will respond to accommodation requests within
two business days. Please note that this email/phone
number is for medical/disability accommodations only
and any other inquiries will not receive a response.
To express your interest please submit your CV by Jan-
uary 27, 2016 using the following link:
https://bloodsystems.taleo.net/careersection/-
bsi/jobsearch.ftl?lang=en&radiusType=-
M&searchExpanded=true&organization=5620010
0500&radius=1
Enter Job Number 16001425 into the search eld.
{
C. Brandon Ogbunu The Broad Institute of
M.I.T. and Harvard Department of Organismic
and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University
ogbunugafor@oeb.harvard.edu
\C. Brandon Ogbunu" <ogbunugafor@oeb.harvard.edu >UCDavis FishDiversication
Postdoctoral Position in Fish Diversication Wainwright
Lab University of California, Davis
A position is open in my lab group for a postdoctoral
researcher interested in the diversication of shes. Ar-
eas of expertise that are of particular interest include
knowledge of the diversity of shes and their biology,
phylogenetic reconstruction, divergence time estimation,
comparative analysis of discrete and continuous char-
acters, sh morphology, and functional morphology. I
am especially interested in extending knowledge about
how functional morphology and innovations impact the
evolutionary dynamics of shes. The position is annu-
ally renewable for at least two years. Start date for the
position is negotiable but is anticipated to be summer
or fall of 2017. Salary will be based on experience level
and will follow the University of California, Davis post-
doctoral scholar salary scale. The position will come
with full benets (including health, dental and vision
insurance).
If you are interested in this position, please send me an
email with a summary of your interests and background,
and include a copy of your cv.
The University of California, Davis, the Department of
Evolution & Ecology, and the Wainwright lab are inter-
ested in candidates who are committed to the highest
standards of scholarship and professional activities, and
to the development of a climate that supports equal-
ity and diversity. The University of California is an
armative action/equal opportunity employer.
Peter Wainwright Department of Evolution and Ecol-
ogy University of California, Davis Davis, CA 95616
Email: pcwainwright@ucdavis.edu Website: http://-
shlab.ucdavis.edu pcwainwright@UCDAVIS.EDU
UChicago ComplexDiseaseModels
Our lab at the University of Chicago has an immediate
opening for an NIH-funded postdoc to contribute to
a study of complex disease models of misfolded stress
response and of diabetes in the y. This work is aJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 133
continuing collaboration between Martin Kreitman (De-
partment of Ecology & Evolution), Graeme Bell (De-
partment of Medicine) and Matthew Stephens (Human
Genetics/Statistics). We are now at the stage of re-
search where we are collecting large amounts of NGS
data (DNA and RNA-Seq) from synthetic cage popula-
tions for a variety of traits. We are looking for someone
with background and experience analyzing large complex
datasets to identify genetic modiers of disease.
Contact martinkreitman@gmail.com if interested.
Project Summary: Drosophila, can be genetically ma-
nipulated to recapitulate human diseases. We have
constructed a complex disease model of misfolded pro-
teins by expressing a mutant diabetes-causing human
proinsulin protein (INSC96Y) in the Drosophila eye and
other tissues. The severity of proteostatic disease phe-
notypes in this model varies when the mutant transgene
is placed in dierent wild-derived genetic backgrounds
and this genetic variation can be mapped with high
resolution by genome-wide association studies (GWAS),
bulk segregant analysis of extreme phenotypes, and gene
expression studies. Here we propose innovative experi-
mental approaches to enhance the value of Drosophila
as a model for investigating naturally occurring genetic
variation inuencing the severity of proteostatic disease
or other complex traits. The research has four specic
aims: (1) Map genetic variation and expression QTL's
that modify cellular response to proteostatic challenge in
two developing tissues, the eye and notum. We have de-
veloped a novel application of bulk segregant analysis of
extreme phenotypes in an array of 16 synthetic y popu-
lations to enhance the signals from both common SNPs
and rare variants with eect sizes not detectable by con-
ventional GWAS; (2) Screen the synthetic populations
to identify alleles that are suppressed by the inhibition
of apoptosis. The approach is a novel population ge-
nomic analog of a classical genetic suppressor screen;
and (3) Investigate the interaction between environmen-
tal and genetic inputs to the breakdown of proteostasis;
(4) Explore genetic modiers of diabetes-like symptoms
in the y induced by a high sugar diet.
Martin Kreitman <martinkreitman@gmail.com >
UConnecticut
SymbiontPhylogenomicsEvolution
Postdoc positions in molecular phylogenomics, host-
symbiont diversication in the Simon Lab (See also ourPhD student advertisement).
The Simon lab at the University of Connecticut seeks cre-
ative and motivated Postdoctoral candidates interested
in phylogenetics, molecular phylogenomics, bioinformat-
ics, and/or symbiont-host interactions (endosymbionts
and/or microbiomes) to begin in the summer or fall of
2017. Experience in the preceding subjects preferred
but not required.
Applicants will participate in an NSF sponsored project
entitled: Exploring Symbiont Biodiversity and Com-
plexity in the Family Cicadidae. The major goal of this
proposal is to study the co-diversication and interac-
tion between cicadas, their primary \obligate" endosym-
bionts, their secondary \facultative" endosymbionts and
their gut microbiota. Cicada obligate endosymbionts
have recently been demonstrated to exhibit spectacu-
lar and unprecedented genome diversity. Since cicada
symbionts are largely unknown our work will result in
considerable biodiversity discovery. We hypothesize that
gain or loss of host-symbiont consortium members dur-
ing cicada phylogenetic history will be correlated with
internal or external environmental changes. We are
most interested in the timing of symbiont consortium
changes. For example, does the gain of a secondary
(facultative) endosymbiont facilitate the breakdown or
loss of primary (obligate) endosymbionts? Or does the
breakdown or loss of the obligate endosymbiont allow
invasion by a secondary endosymbiont? Similarly, we
ask whether the changes in the gut microbiota aect
primary endosymbionts (keeping in mind that gut mi-
crobiota are known to synthesize essential amino acids
for some hosts). Other hypotheses concern changes in
symbiont consortium membership related to changes in
the biotic or abiotic external environment coincident
with the invasion of new biogeographic areas charac-
terized by dierent climates and host plants. Broader
impacts will involve teaching collaborations with team
members in the US, Brazil, China, India, NZ, and Fiji.
Field trips to Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Fiji, and India
are planned.
Senior Personnel and collaborators on the project in-
clude: Thomas Buckley (NZ), David Marshall, John
Cooley, John McCutcheon, Emily and Alan Lemmon,
Chris Owen, Beth Wade, Al Sanborn, Dan Mozgai,
Max Moulds (AU), Ben Price (UK), Martin Villet (ZA),
Deepa Agashe (IN), Krushnamegh Kunte (IN), Sud-
hanya Hajong (IN), Cong Wei (CN), Hong He (CN),
Daniela Takiya (BR), Tatiana Ruschel (BR), and Peter
Lockhart (NZ, FJ), and numerous cicada researchers
around the world.
Interested, qualied Postdoctoral candidates should
send an email describing their motivation, skills, and re-134 EvolDir January 1, 2017
search experience/interests along with a CV, and copies
of relevant publications. Applicants should also ar-
range to have letters sent by three referees who are
familiar with the candidates work (including the PhD
advisor). Postdoctoral support is available through
our NSF award but applications to outside funding
sources are also strongly encouraged. Send all material
to chris.simon@uconn.edu. Strong applicants will be
contacted to schedule an informal Skype interview.
The successful candidates will join the EEB Department
at the University of Connecticut and also have opportu-
nities to work in the laboratories of collaborators. The
EEB department is a diverse, highly collegial and inter-
active group of scientists. Relevant to these positions,
we are particularly strong in Systematics with eight
faculty members whose major focus is phylogenetic sys-
tematics and half a dozen others who use phylogenetics
in their work. We oer three graduate courses in system-
atics (Principles and Methods of Systematics, Molecular
Systematics, and Phylogenetic Systematics) plus numer-
ous relevant grad seminars. There is a strong symbiont
group on campus that includes members of EEB and
Molecular and Cell Biology. EEB also has strengths in
phenotypic plasticity and functional morphology, global
change ecology, behavior, and organismal evolution, ecol-
ogy and conservation.
Chris Simon Professor, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
75 North Eagleville Road, University of Connecticut
Storrs, CT 06269-3043
chris.simon@uconn.edu
Oce (860) 486-4640; Lab (860) 486-3947; Fax (860)
486-6364, Oce: Biopharm 305D, Lab: Biopharm
323,325
C. Simon Home page: http://-
hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
simon lab/member pages/c simon.php Simon Lab
Home: http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/-
cicada/simon lab/lab pages/current.php Reprints:
http://hydrodictyon.eeb.uconn.edu/projects/cicada/-
resources/reprints.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUFlorida 3 LifeHistoryTiming
Postdoc: 3 postdoc positions in diversication, host-
parasite interactions, and rapid evolution of seasonal
phenology
Animals and plants must synchronize their life-history
timing to exploit good times and avoid bad times of the
year. Synchronization among interacting species makes
seasonal responses a critical organizational component
of ecological communities. Adaptation in seasonal tim-
ing can create and maintain biodiversity. Reproduction
is often seasonal. Therefore, shifts in seasonal timing
can disrupt reproductive timing among populations, cat-
alyzing speciation. Moreover, formation of new taxa
creates opportunities for other, interacting organisms
to diversify in kind. Shifts in seasonal timing can have
reverberating eects generating new biodiversity \se-
quentially" through ecosystems. Contemporary climate
change is driving changes in seasonality. The capacity of
ecological communities to evolve in concert with chang-
ing conditions will impact whether interactions among
community members will be maintained or disrupted
under new climatic regimes.
Our research team, including Je Feder at Notre Dame,
Greg Ragland at University of Colorado-Denver, Tom
Powell at Binghamton University New York, and Dan
Hahn at University of Florida will investigate the role
of seasonal adaptation in the origin and maintenance
of insect biodiversity. Rhagoletis pomonella, the apple
maggot y, is a fruit-feeding agricultural pest that has
recently evolved (since the mid 1880's). Seasonality
drives diversication; apple ies evolved an earlier life
cycle than their hawthorn-feeing ancestors to feed on
earlier ripening apple fruits. Superimposed on seasonal
partitioning of plant-feeding ies are additional \sequen-
tial" radiations involving parasitic wasps. Three wasps
have similarly diverged in life cycle timing to match
the seasonal shift of their R. pomonella hosts to earlier
fruiting apples.
This multidisciplinary project will test whether the same
physiological, molecular, and genomic mechanisms un-
derlying the shift in life history timing allowing Rhago-
letis to attack apples are also involved in sequential
shifts and seasonal adaptation of the parasitic wasps
attacking apple ies. This project will also manipulate
environmental conditions to assess the potential for cli-
mate change to disrupt the y and wasp communityJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 135
or if sucient genetic diversity exists in populations of
these insects for them to rapidly respond and co-evolve.
One postdoc each will join:
Greg Ragland's lab at University of Colorado-Denver
(GREGORY.RAGLAND@ucdenver.edu - https://-
seasonaladaptation.org)
Tom Powell's lab at Binghamton University,
New York (powellt@binghamton.edu - http://-
www.powellevolab.com)
Dan Hahn's lab at University of Florida. (da-
hahn@u.edu - http://entnemdept.ifas.u.edu/people-
directory/daniel-hahn/)
This group of laboratories has a strong history of inter-
institution collaboration and communication so while
postdocs will have a single home lab, they will inter-
act frequently with other members of the larger team.
We are especially interested in folks with experience
and passion for population genetics, genomics, multi-
trophic ecology, climate change, physiological ecology
or evolutionary developmental biology.
For more information or to apply to the Hahn or Ragland
labs, please contact each PI directly at the e-mail ad-
dresses above. Applications to the Powell lab should be
directed through the open position posting of the SUNY
Research Foundation's employment website. Please note
that access to this position in that application system
will become available shortly. For applications to any
of the labs, please provide a single PDF document in-
cluding your CV, a brief statement of previous research,
and contact information for three references to each
PI you may be interested in working with by January
30th. Review of applications will begin February 1st
and continue until the position is lled.
Please note that both Greg Ragland and Dan Hahn will
be at the SICB meetings in New Orleans if you wish to
talk in person, you can also see related work in the sym-
posium \Evolutionary Impacts of Seasonality" (http://-
www.sicb.org/meetings/2017/symposia/seasonal.php).
Some publications related to the project include:
Meyers, P., T.H.Q. Powell, K. Walden, A. Shieferecke,
J.L. Feder, D.A. Hahn, S.H. Robertson, S.H. Berlocher,
and G.J. Ragland. 2016. Evolutionary divergence of
the diapause transcriptome in apple maggot ies: win-
ter chilling and post-winter transcriptional repression.
Journal of Experimental Biology 219: 2613-1622.
Hood, G.R., A.A. Forbes, T.H.Q. Powell, S.P. Egan, G.
Hamerlinck, J.J. Smith, and J.L. Feder. 2015. Sequen-
tial divergence and the
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida
ButteryMothGenomicsEvol
Full-timePostdoc, Kawahara Lab:
TheKawahara Lab at the University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL, is hiring a full-time postdoc.
Thepostdoc will help various projects pertaining to
research on the evolution of butteries and phyloge-
nomics/comparative genomics of sensory system evolu-
tion in bombycoid moths, as part of two, recently-funded
National Science Foundation projects (NSF DEBNERC
and NSF GoLife).
Theselected postdoc will work at the Florida Museum
of Natural History's McGuire Center in Gainesville, FL,
USA. The selected candidate will need to be able to
communicate well in verbal and written English and
have the ability to train students and analyze genomic
libraries for NGS, including insect transcriptomes and
target capture approaches. The selected candidate will
join a team of 4 postdocs, 9 graduate students, multiple
undergraduates, and sta in the Kawahara Lab. The
postdoc will also work closely with local and interna-
tional collaborators.
Required:A Ph.D. in molecular evolution, systematics,
evolution, bioinformatics, genomics, or related eld. Fa-
miliarity with Next Generation Sequencing, computer
programming/scripting in Python, Perl, Java, C++, R
or other language. Candidates with background experi-
ence in functional/comparative genomics, genome anno-
tation, and/or phylogenomics will be highly considered.
An interest in insect evolution and strong publication
record is desired.
Salary: $47,500- $50,000 USD plus benets. Startdate:
Position available Feb 1, 2017 or until the position is
lled. Evaluations of applications will begin Dec. 20,
2016. Duration:The appointment can be up to 2 years,
but will be made on a yearly basis given satisfactory
progress.
Toensure full consideration please email the following to
Akito Kawahara at kawahara@mnh.u.edu by Decem-
ber 20, 2016: (1) a cover letter, (2) your updated CV,
and (3) letters of support from 3 mentors/colleagues.136 EvolDir January 1, 2017
The cover letter should describe your previous research
and training, your qualications for the position as de-
tailed in this advertisement, and should explain how
this postdoctoral position will further your long-term
research/career aspirations. Specify in the email subject
line: \Postdoc KawaharaLab"
Aboutthe University of Florida TheUniversity of Florida
(UF) is one of the nation's leading research institutions
with 35,000 undergraduates, 15,000 graduate students,
and over 4,500 faculty and academic sta. UF oers all
resources of a top research university to study evolution,
genomics, and systematics. The Florida Museum of
Natural History (FLMNH) serves as the iDigBio HUB,
and is now one of the primary centers for research in
evolutionary biology.
TheFLMNH is also closely tied to the UF High-
Performance Computing Center (HPC) and HiPerGa-
tor2 (https://www.rc.u.edu/) allowing for the chosen
postdoc to utilize this rich computational resource. UF
also has a state-of-the-art next-generation genome se-
quencing facility at the Interdisciplinary Center for
Biotechnology Research (ICBR), the Florida State Col-
lection of Arthropods (FSCA), and collections of the
McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity. The
Kawahara Lab also has strong ties to UF's the De-
partment of Biology, Department of Entomology and
Nematology, School of Natural Resources and Environ-
ment, Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation,
School of Forest Resources and Conservation, and De-
partment of Microbiology and Cell Science. Further
information on the Kawahara Lab can be found at:
http://www.mnh.u.edu/mcguire/kawahara/ Recent-
publications from the lab include:
- Barber, J., Leavell, B.C., Keener, A.L., Breinholt,
J.W., Chadwell, B.A., McClure, C.J.W., Hill, G.M.,
Kawahara, A.Y. 2015. Moth tails divert bat attack:
Evolution of acoustic deection. PNAS 112(9): 2812-
2816 - Kawahara, A.Y., Barber, J.R. 2015. Tempo and
mode of anti-bat ultrasound and jamming in the di-
verse hawkmoth radiation. PNAS 112(20): 6407-6412. -
Kawahara, A.Y., Breinholt, J.W. 2014. Phylogenomics
provides strong evidence for relationships of butteries
and moths. Proceedings R. Soc B 281: 20140970
kawahara@mnh.u.eduUFZ Halle ButteryBiodiversity
The Department of Community Ecology at the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ
and the German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity
Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig oer the following
position under the supervision of Prof Dr Josef Settele:
Postdoctoral researcher (f/m) in the eld of community
ecology of butteries
Global change restructures species assemblages with
severe consequences for biodiversity and ecosystem func-
tioning. The basic processes underlying this include
environmental ltering, niche partitioning and a num-
ber of spatial and stochastic processes. The key question
of the project will be to understand the relative impor-
tance of these underlying mechanisms. Using European
butteries as a model system, we will integrate multiple
data sets on species distribution and abundance with
high temporal and spatial resolution and extent across
Europe . In combination with comprehensive informa-
tion on species traits and phylogenetic relationships we
will (1) analyse buttery trait and niche evolution, (2)
identify the impact of global change drivers on spatial
and temporal patterns of species richness, functional
and phylogenetic diversity and their mismatches, and
(3) analyse scale - dependencies of taxonomic, functional
and phylogenetic diversity.
planned starting date: 1 April 2017 full-time employ-
ment two-year contract job location: UFZ Halle (Saale),
Germany salary: Pay grade (Entgeltgruppe) 13 TV-L
(100%) position number: 34600515#10
Applications are accepted until 1 January 2017.
The recruitment symposium will take place in Leipzig
on 27-28 February 2017.
more information (PDF): https://www.idiv.de/-
leadmin/content/Files Flexpool/pdfs/-
PD34600515 10Settele.pdf { Dr. Martin Wiemers
Department of Community Ecology Helmholtz
Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ Theodor-
Lieser-Str. 4 06120 Halle Germany Tel. +49 345
558-5322 e-mail: martin.wiemers@ufz.de http://-
www.ufz.de/index.php?en=31235 Martin Wiemers
<martin.wiemers@ufz.de >January 1, 2017 EvolDir 137
UGhent
EvolutionAnimalColouration
Post-doc on animal coloration/sensory ecology and evo-
lution.
DEADLINE DEC. 20, 2016
Supervisor: Dr. Matthew D. Shawkey
Evolution and Optics of Nanostructures (EON) Group,
Department of Biology
University of Ghent, Belgium
http://users.ugent.be/ ~mshawkey Deadline: December
20, 2016
A 3-year post-doc position on animal coloration/sensory
ecology is available in the Evolution and Optics of Nanos-
tructures (EON) group at the University of Ghent, Bel-
gium. Research projects should be within this broad
theme, but will be collaboratively designed by the post-
doc and I. Anyone with an interest in multidisciplinary
research is encouraged to apply, including those trained
in elds outside biology. The post-doc will also have
the opportunity to do some teaching on an ad hoc basis,
but this will be limited to <30% of their time.
Funding: Competitive salary is oered for three years.
Research and travel funds will be available in varying
degrees depending on the project.
Eligibility: Open to all nationalities. A PhD in any eld
of science (preferably Biology, Physics or Materials Sci-
ence) is required by the time of admission. Prociency
with the English language (both written and spoken) is
required, and basic skills in Dutch (or a willingness to
learn) are advantageous.
Location: The University of Ghent is a large research-
oriented university that is consistently ranked within
the top 100 Universities worldwide. The Department
of Biology has broad research expertise with an active
community of faculty, post-docs and students. Ghent
is a beautiful small city in the heart of Europe that
combines medieval architecture with a thriving arts and
food scene.
How to apply: You can formally apply at https:/-
/career012.successfactors.eu/career?career%5fns=-
job%5isting &co mpany ~Ae000956575P
&navBarLevel=JOB%5fSEARCH
&rcm%5fsite%5ocale=en%5fGB&site=VjItRG9OVktVYS9CQ3J3RmtmaHoxaFpSQT09
&career jobreqidA01 &selec ted lang=en GB
&jobAlertController jobAlertId=
&jobAlertController jobAle rtName=
&s.crb=iOHsdd6YY1VUk3FWqYtH50Skvmw%3d
You are encouraged to rst contact Dr. Matthew
Shawkey (matthew.shawkey@ugent.be) to discuss your
application, but this is not required.
Matthew Shawkey <Matthew.Shawkey@UGent.be >
UHawaii BactroceraFruitFlies
Postdoctoral research position to study population ge-
netics/diagnosis of fruit ies
The University of Hawaii in cooperation with the USDA
Mission Laboratory in Texas is in search of a Junior
Researcher (Postdoc) to work on the population genetics
and identication of exotic pest fruit ies as part of a
project to understand invasion pathways. The project
will develop and examine new resources for molecu-
lar identication of fruit y species and populations
in the genus Bactrocera. The junior researcher will
examine fruit ies using principles of population genet-
ics and systematics. These data will be evaluated for
trends in species composition and movement pathways
through comparison to oshore and domestic y collec-
tions. There is an opportunity to contribute to analysis
of Next Generation Sequence data in support of the goal
to distinguish populations.
The research will be performed at the USDA Mission
laboratory in southern Texas. The laboratory has the
molecular biology instrumentation and fruit y collec-
tions needed to complete the study. The candidate will
conduct molecular experiments to generate data, per-
form statistical analysis of data sets, organize samples
and records, and develop publications and presentations.
The successful applicant will be expected to work in-
dependently as well as part of a team. This includes
working with colleagues at the Mission Laboratory and
collaborating with scientists at the University of Hawaii
Insect Biodiversity and Systematic Lab.
Requirements: Minimum of a PhD in biological sci-
ences. Prior experience generating and analyzing molec-
ular data sets, as demonstrated through publications.
Knowledge of both molecular phylogenetic and popula-
tion genetic methods are highly desired.
The position is for one year, with the possibility138 EvolDir January 1, 2017
of continuation based on productivity. If interested
please submit a CV and contact information for at
least 3 references to co-PI Dr. Norman Barr (Nor-
man.B.Barr@aphis.usda.gov). Review of applicants will
begin immediately. For full consideration submit CV
and references by January 15, 2017.
\Barr, Norman B - APHIS"
<Norman.B.Barr@aphis.usda.gov >
UHelsinki HostPathogenCoevolution
POST DOC position in HOST-PATHOGEN COEVO-
LUTION
Applications are invited for a three year post doc in
the research group of Professor Anna-Liisa Laine. The
successful applicant will join the Centre of Excellence in
Metapopulation Research at the University of Helsinki.
The project is centered on the interaction between host
plant Plantago lanceolata and its fungal pathogen Po-
dosphaera plantaginis in the ~Aland Islands. With 16
years of epidemiological data complemented with in-
tensive disease sampling since year 2010, molecular re-
sources and solid experimental protocols, this system
oers unique opportunities for testing classic hypotheses
regarding host-pathogen coevolution with direct links
to epidemiological dynamics. One of the key aims of
the project is to link molecular variation to phenotype
data and population dynamic data of both host and
pathogen. Depending on the background and interests
of the candidate, the focus of the research can be more
molecular or ecological.
Recent relevant publications include:
Jousimo, J, Tack, AJM, Ovaskainen, O., Mononen, T.,
Susi, H., Tollenaere, C. & Laine, A.-L. 2014. Ecological
and evolutionary eects of fragmentation on infectious
disease dynamics. Science, 344: 1289-1293.
Susi, H., Barres, B., Vale, P. & Laine, A.-L. 2015. Coin-
fection alters population dynamics of infectious disease.
Nature Communications, 6: 5975.
The successful candidate should have PhD / post doc-
toral experience with host-parasite interactions, evolu-
tionary genetics, bioinformatics, plant pathology, evo-
lutionary biology or similar, and a strong interest in
studying disease in natural populations. Excellent writ-
ten and verbal communication skills, and the ability to
think independently and creatively are required. Youmust demonstrate the ability to work as part of a team,
and participate in supervision of more junior group
members.
More information: http://allaine.it.helsinki./ Starting
date: Winter/Spring 2017
Application deadline: 15 January 2017
Mail your application (CV with publications included,
contact details of two references, and a letter (MAX 1
page) with a description of your research interests and
why you would be a suitable candidate for the project)
as a single pdf le to biotiede-mrg@helsinki., with title
POST DOC COEVOLUTION.
Informal inquires to anna-liisa.laine@helsinki.
For information on the University of Helsinki, please
visit: http://www.helsinki./university/index.html
Professor Anna-Liisa Laine
Center-of-Excellence in Metapopulation Biology
Department of Biosciences
PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1)
FI-00014 University of Helsinki, Finland
tel. +358 50 57750
allaine.it.helsinki.
helsinki./science/metapop/
twitter: @annaliisalaine
Anna-Liisa Laine <allaine@mappi.helsinki. >
UIceland Transcriptomics
Postdoc at the Institute of Life and Environmental Sci-
ences, University of Iceland
A full postdoctoral research position is available at the
Institute of Life and Environmental Sciences, Univer-
sity of Iceland. The research eld is transcriptomics
of non-model organisms, whelks and groundwater am-
phipods. The position is supported for two years by
the Icelandic Research Council with a possibility of
extension. The goal is rstly to unravel the causes
behind the high colour variation in Common whelk
Buccinum undatum in Icelandic waters by analysing
existing unassembled transcriptome data, and secondly
to analyse assembled transcriptome of Crangonyx is-
landicus, an endemic groundwater amphipod in Iceland,
in comparison with the transcriptome of the surfaceJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 139
living amphipod Crangonyx pseudogracilis.
Qualications: PhD degree in biology or related elds.
Research experience in the eld of bioinformatics, genet-
ics and evolutionary theory. Good communication and
collaboration skills. English speaking/writing skills.
Application deadline is December 19th 2016, please ap-
ply here: http://english.hi.is/vacancies list Interested
applicants need to send the following with their appli-
cation: I. Written application (max one page), listing
the applicant's interest in the project and how they
envision they can contribute to the project II. CV III.
Certicates of education IV. Two reference letters and
information how to reach the referees
The work will be supervised by Zophonias O. J onsson
zjons@hi.is (http://starfsfolk.hi.is/en/simaskra/1476)
Sn~Abj orn P alsson snaebj@hi.is (www.hi.is/ ~snaebj),
who can provide further information about the position.
Appointments to positions at the University of Iceland
are made in consideration of the Equal Rights Policy of
the University of Iceland. The salary for the position
will be in accordance with the grant and salary agree-
ment between the Union of University Teachers and the
Minister of Finance.
At the School of Engineering and Natural Sciences 380
people are employed in research and teaching. The
School oers an international environment, with the
number of international employees and students increas-
ing each year. Currently 25% of all employees and post-
graduate students are international. There are around
2200 students at the School, divided into six faculties,
thereof are 350 graduate students and 150 doctoral stu-
dents. Research institutes at the school are the Science
Institute that divides into the Institute of Earth Sciences
and Institute of Physical Sciences, Institute of Life and
Environmental Sciences, Engineering Research Institute
and the Institute for Sustainability Studies which is an
interdisciplinary institute and belongs to the ve schools
of the University of Iceland.
The University of Iceland is the largest teaching, re-
search and science institute in Iceland and is ranked
among the top 250 universities in the world by Times
Higher Education.
Information on the University of Iceland can be found
here and more information can be found at the Interna-
tional oce and Relocation Service
snaebj@hi.isUKansas BiodiversityInstitute
TheUniversity of Kansas' Biodiversity Institute is ex-
cited to announce a postdoctoral position for a Genomics
Specialist who will conduct collaborative research and
oversee the Biodiversity Institute's shared-use molec-
ular genetics laboratory (https://biodiversity.ku.edu/-
research/molecular-genetics-lab). The Biodiversity In-
situte's molecular laboratory is a recently renovated
facility with ample bench space and state of the art
equipment that is located in the KU Natural History
Museum. This laboratory is used by a diverse and highly
interactive group of approximately 25 scientists who are
addressing a range of research questions in systematics
and population genetics using organisms from across
the tree of life (e.g., insects, spiders, plants, sh, birds,
reptiles, amphibians, mammals, invertebrates [incl. par-
asites], and viruses).
Becausethis position is supported by the Biodiversity
Institute rather than an individual PI, it oers consid-
erable intellectual freedom. Our goal is to hire someone
who is interested in developing collaborative projects
with one or more members of our group. Collectively,
we have numerous ongoing projects involving acquisition
and analysis of genomic sequence data underway, and
are looking to to add some outside talent capable of
taking this work in new directions. Our ideal candidate
will be someone with prior genomics and bioinformatics
experience who also has strong organismal interests and
would enjoy working in one of the world's nest natural
history museums.
Theposition will be for a two year term (with possible
renewal for a third year) and oers a competitive salary
( $47-48K, depending on prior experience). We will start
reviewing applications on January 12th, 2017. More in-
formation about the molecular genetics group, including
a list of molecular laboratory users and projects, can
be found at our website: https://biodiversity.ku.edu/-
research/molecular-genetics-lab. The ocial job posting
and application site can be found a KU's employment
pages https://employment.ku.edu/sta/7361BR. Please
feel free to contact us if you have any questions.
GenomicsSpecialist Search Committee RichGlor,
chair of search committee (glor@ku.edu) Kirsen-
Jensen (jensen@ku.edu) RobMoyle (moyle@ku.edu)
LenaHileman (lhileman@ku.edu) AlanaAlexander
(alana.alexander@ku.edu)140 EvolDir January 1, 2017
glor@ku.edu
ULaval FishPopulationGenomics
The Bernatchez's Lab at Univerity Laval (Qu ebec City,
Canada) is currently searching for a postdoctorate re-
searcher to be involved in our ongoing research program
pertaining to the comparative and population genomics
of shes. This research program is very well supported
from multiple funding agencies (Natural Sciences and
Engineering Research Council of Canada, Canadian
Research Chair Program, Genome Canada, Genome
Qu ebec, Fonds nature et Technologie Qu ebec) and in-
volves numerous collaborators, both national and inter-
national from over 20 countries. Our research program
aims to enhance fundamental knowledge pertaining to
the evolutionary processes responsible for generating
and maintaining genetic diversity within populations of
aquatic animals, with relevance for management and
conservation.
Depending on his/her specic expertise and qualica-
tions, the selected candidate can be involved in one
or several of the specic projects currently conducted
including either marine (Halibut, Capelin), anadro-
mous/catadomous (Salmon,Eel) or freshwater (Trout,
Whitesh), among others. Details of specic ongoing
projects can be found on our website (see below).
Required Qualications: We are primarily searching for
a prospective candidate with strong and demonstrated
bioinformatics skills in whole genome assembly who is
also familiar with scripting and programming. The ideal
candidate should also be familiar with population ge-
nomics analyses of data sets derived from whole genome
resequencing, high density SNP chips, RADseq/GBS
genotyping, as well as epigenome (methylation) data
sets. Candidates must be uent in English, both written
and spoken.
The position is available now and for 2 years, likely
renewable for a third year, and to be lled as soon
as possible. Salary is established according to local
University standards.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing
your research interests and qualications, a com-
plete CV and names of three references by e-mail to
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Do not hesitate to contact me directly for any further
details or questions.To learn more about.
Our lab, research program, publications, people:
The Canadian Research in Genomics and Conserva-
tion of Aquatic Resources https://www.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/research programs.htm Laval Uni-
versity : https://www.ulaval.ca/en/research.html
Qu ebec City : http://www.quebecregion.com/en/ Louis
Bernatchez, Canadian Research in Genomics and Con-
servation of Aquatic Resources Institut de Biologie
Int egrative et des Systemes, Pavillon Charles-Eugene
Marchand, Universite Laval, Qu ebec, QC G1V 0A6
Canada
Tel: 1 418 656-3402 Fax: 1 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Louis Bernatchez <Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca >
ULiverpool PopulationGenetics
Popgen and bioinformatics postdoc in Liverpool
We are seeking an individual with expertise in computa-
tional population genetics, statistics and informatics to
join a multi-institution research network that is using
several species of British Lepidoptera, with contrasting
demographic histories, to study the rate of evolutionary
responses to ecological change. You will be working
with the Liverpool team, led by Ilik Saccheri, with re-
sponsibility for analysing whole genome scan data from
contemporary and museum samples to identify genomic
regions, and functional candidates within them, showing
evidence of recent selection. You should have a PhD de-
gree in population/evolutionary biology, bioinformatics
or statistics, and experience of genomic analysis. The
post is available for 2 years from the time of appointment
(ideally around April/May).
Informal enquiries to saccheri@liv.ac.uk are welcome.
For further details and how to apply go to https:/-
/recruit.liverpool.ac.uk and search for Job Reference
004064. Closing date 12 January 2017.
DR ILIK J. SACCHERI Institute of Integrative Biology
University of Liverpool The Biosciences Building Crown
Street Liverpool L69 7ZB UK Tel. 44 (0)151 795 4522
email saccheri@liv.ac.uk
\Saccheri, Ilik" <I.J.Saccheri@liverpool.ac.uk >January 1, 2017 EvolDir 141
UMichigan
AvianEvolutionSpeciation
The Winger lab in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology and the Museum of Zoology at the
University of Michigan is accepting applications for a
postdoctoral scientist position in avian evolutionary ge-
nomics and speciation. We conduct research on diverse
topics related to avian evolution and evolutionary ecol-
ogy, including speciation, the evolution of geographic
range, the assembly of regional biotas, and avian move-
ment ecology (seasonal migration and dispersal). We are
particularly interested in topics that bridge one or more
of these themes. The primary focus of this postdoctoral
position is to test the historical and ecological factors
that regulate speciation in Neotropical montane birds.
Specically, the project seeks to develop a comparative
genomic framework to test how ecological and social
selection pressures interact with population history to
inuence trajectories of speciation in the Andes. Du-
ties may involve development of genomic libraries and
sample preparation in a molecular lab, assembly and
analysis of genomic data, project organization, training
of graduate and undergraduate students, and collabora-
tive grant and manuscript writing. \Wet lab" molecular
work will take place in a highly collaborative, multi-PI,
biodiversity-focused genomic laboratory in the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Depending
on expertise, the postdoc may also contribute to other
research endeavors in the Winger lab that involve ge-
nomic, phylogenetic, distributional or morphological
(specimen-based) datasets.
A successful applicant would have a PhD in evolutionary
biology, evolutionary or ecological genomics, population
genetics, phylogenetics or biodiversity informatics by
summer, 2017; demonstrated success in publication and
grant writing of original research; a passion for bio-
diversity and natural history of birds or other taxa;
and a track record of and interest in mentorship of un-
dergraduate students. Ideally, a successful applicant
would also have expertise in at least one of the follow-
ing areas: genomic and bioinformatic methods such
as whole genome sequencing and assembly, sequence
capture and/or short-read sequencing and assembly;
population genetic and/or phylogenetic analytical meth-
ods, particularly as pertains to genomic data; and/or
uency in scripting languages such as Python or R. This
Postdoctoral Fellowship is intended to be a two-yearposition, pending a successful performance review after
the rst year. Desired start date is September 1, 2017,
but may be negotiable. Applicants should send a letter
of interest, CV, and list of three references to Dr. Ben
Winger (wingerb@umich.edu) by December 9th, 2016.
Ben Winger, PhD Assistant Professor & Curator of
Birds, Dept. of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
and Museum of Zoology University of Michigan Ann
Arbor, MI 48109 USA www.benwingerbiology.com
\wingerb@umich.edu" <wingerb@umich.edu >
UMunich PlantGenomics
Postdoc position in evolutionary botany at the Ludwig-
Maximilians University in Munich to work on oral sex
determination
Our lab is seeking to recruit a scientist at the post-
doctoral level ('Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter' position)
to work on sex determination in the economically impor-
tant Cucurbitaceae family, specically on the assembly
of a PacBio-sequenced genome of a species in the Cu-
cumis/Citrullus clade. The project involves collabora-
tion between the labs of Abdel Bendahmane (Head
of Translational Research Group, Institute of Plant
Sciences Paris-Saclay) and Susanne Renner. Paired-
end Illumina Nextera sequenced male and female total
genomes are already in hand. Much higher coverage
will be achieved now, and the assembly will focus on
three gene families known to be involved in oral sex
determination, with the specic goal of inferring chromo-
somal location and re-arrangements in a group of related
species. The functional characterization of X- and Y-
linked sex genes will be carried out in the Bendahmane
lab.
The position is for initially two years, starting on 1
April 2017, with the possibility of an extension. Candi-
dates must have a doctoral degree in the areas of plant
biology or genomics and experience in bioinformatics,
for example, with the Python language. Knowledge of
spoken German is required because the position involves
assistance in basic botany courses, some of which are
obligatory for future biology teachers.
Candidates should submit their CV, including a list
of publications and a statement of research interests,
along with the contact information of two referees to
Professor Susanne Renner (renner@lmu.de). Deadline:
30 January 2017.142 EvolDir January 1, 2017
What we do: https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-
uzOGmTgAAAAJ&hl=en Susanne Renner
<renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >
UOtago PopGenTheory
Postdoctoral Fellow in Evolutionary Biology-1602140
Applications are invited for this full-time, xed-term
position of Postdoctoral Fellow in Evolutionary Biology
within the Department of Zoology at the University of
Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand. This position in the
laboratory of Professor Hamish G. Spencer is funded by
the Marsden Fund of the Royal Society of New Zealand
and is available for three years.
The project is entitled \Epigenetics and Evolutionary
Theory." Just as natural populations exhibit genetic
variation, so too do they harbour epigenetic variation,
some of which is transmitted from one generation to the
next. This project asks how we can explain this trans-
generationally inherited epigenetic variation in natural
populations and what might be the consequences for
evolution. The researchers will construct and analyse
novel mathematical models to investigate these matters,
validating these models with data from real examples,
and using the models to make novel predictions about
the properties of epigenetic variation in nature.
You will have a strong interest in applying quantita-
tive methods in biology. In addition, you will demon-
strate a good record of publication in peer-reviewed
journals, together with high quality oral and written
communication skills. Previous experience in modelling
population-genetic theory is desirable but not essential.
Our research group and the wider Department includes
world-class research sta, facilities and strong interna-
tional collaborations, oering you excellent opportuni-
ties to gain a variety of highly pertinent research and
technical skills.
For details about living in Dunedin, in the South
Island of New Zealand, see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
humanresources/join-otago/lifestyle-and-culture/
dunedin/index.html
As part of your application, please submit a CV, a
personal statement of suitability and the names and
contact details of two referees via the University of
Otago's website (https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/-
2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=3Den&job=3D1602 140).Applicants must have been awarded the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy before taking up this position.
Specic enquiries may be directed to Professor Hamish
Spencer (hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz).
Applications must be led via the University of
Otago's website (https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/-
2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=3Den&job=3D1602 140) quoting
reference number 1602140 and will close on Wednesday,
18 January 2017.
Hamish Spencer <hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz >
UPennsylvania
EvolutionaryGameTheory
Post-doctoralpositions in Evolutionary Theory and So-
cial Norms at Penn
JoshuaPlotkin's laboratory in Evolutionary Theory at
the University of Pennsylvania seeks one or two postdoc-
toral researchers to begin as soon as possible (summer
or fall 2017 at the latest). Post-docs will join a vibrant
research group of scientists with diverse backgrounds
who share common interests in evolutionary theory and
population biology.
Weseek and value individuals who have strong intellec-
tual motivations of their own. But we are especially
interested in scientists who want to use mathemati-
cal models to study how social norms might arise, be
maintained, or be disrupted in populations. Familiarity
with some body of mathematical modeling (population
biology, game theory, and/or evolutionary theory) is
required, and computational skills (Monte Carlo sim-
ulations, scientic computation) are a plus. Strong
communication and writing skills are also highly val-
ued. In addition to the development of formal theory,
there are opportunities for funded collaborations with
behavioral experimentalists using economic games for
empirical study of social norms.
Fundsfor conference travel and visits with collaborators
will be available to the fellow, as well as the many op-
portunities for collaboration in by the Penn community.
Post-docs will also have the opportunity to help mentor
undergraduate and graduate students in the lab. Indi-
viduals with a Ph.D., or those expecting to complete
their Ph.D. in Spring 2017, are encouraged to apply.
Applicationswill be reviewed on a rolling basis. Please
send CV, statement of interest (two pages max), twoJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 143
papers (published or pre-prints), and arrange for at
least two reference letters to be sent to: jplotkin
(at) sas (dot) upenn (dot) edu. Also visit http://-
mathbio.sas.upenn.edu Universityof Pennsylvania is
an EOE/Armative Action Employer. Female, under-
represented minority and LGBT candidates are particu-
larly encouraged to apply.
jplotkin@sas.upenn.edu
UPennsylvania
SocialEvolutionTheory
Postdoctoralfellowships in social evolution theory at
Penn
Multiplefunded postdoctoral fellowships are available
in the research group of Erol Akcay at the University
of Pennsylvania to work on the theory of animal and
human social behavior and social structure. We are
seeking enthusiastic and talented individuals to conduct
original research on topics related to the lab's interests.
Specic potential topics include: dynamics of social net-
works, evolution of social preferences and social norms,
and collective behavior. There will also be opportunity
and encouragement to develop own research questions
within these broad areas.
Theideal candidate will have a strong background in
mathematical or computational theory in ecology, evo-
lution, and/or social science (and a Ph.D. in a related
eld), and will have demonstrated ability to conduct
original research. The fellow will join a vibrant research
group working on diverse questions in social evolutionary
theory. Start date is exible, from as soon as possible
to the Fall of 2017 at the latest. Funding is available
for multiple years, contingent on satisfactory progress.
Moreabout the lab: The Akcay lab (http://-
erolakcay.wordpress.com/) is based in the Department
of Biology at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadel-
phia, PA. We study social evolution, broadly conceived,
across the tree of life. Work in the group addresses
a range of questions at the interface of ecology, evo-
lution, and social dynamics, including: the evolution
of social behaviors and social systems of animals and
humans, evolutionary ecology of species interactions
such as mutualisms, the interplay between physiology
and social behavior, dynamics of coupled natural and
human systems, and others. More information about
the lab's research and links to recent publications canbe found at: http://erolakcay.wordpress.com/research
and http://erolakcay.wordpress.com/publications. The
Biology Department and the University of Pennsylvania
provide a vibrant intellectual environment for research
in theoretical biology and social evolution, and ample
opportunity for cross-disciplinary collaborations. The
University of Pennsylvania is in an urban campus in the
heart of Philadelphia, one of the most livable big cities
in the US.
Toapply: send a CV, statement of research interests
(2 pages max), two representative papers (published or
preprints), and contact information for 3 references to
Erol Akcay at eakcay@sas.upenn.edu. Applications will
be considered on a rolling basis; informal inquiries are
welcome.
TheUniversity of Pennsylvania is an EOE/Armative
Action Employer. Female, underrepresented minority,
and LGBT candidates are especially encouraged to ap-
ply.
{ ErolAkcay AssistantProfessor Departmentof Biol-
ogy Universityof Pennsylvania PhiladelphiaPA 204E
Lynch Labs http://erolakcay.wordpress.com eak-
cay@sas.upenn.edu
USussex EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral position in evolutionary genetics/genomics
of sexual antagonism
University of Sussex School of Life Sciences
Full time, Fixed term for 1 year Salary range: starting
at 32,004 and rising to 38,183 per annum Closing date
for applications: 12 January 2017
Description
The Morrow lab wishes to appoint a postdoctoral re-
searcher as part of project investigating the genet-
ics of sexual antagonism in the fruit-y Drosophila
melanogaster. The position will be focussed on analysing
molecular data from an experiment into the reproductive
success of ies with known genotypes in a mass-action
experiment that has already been carried out. The aim
being to determine reproductive success of the dierent
haplotypes and infer selection at individual genetic loci.
The main duties will involve designing the genotyping
strategy (using microsatellites and/or SNP markers),
pre-processing genotyping data, statistical modelling
and contributing to writing-up the experiment. The144 EvolDir January 1, 2017
post-holder is expected to work closely with the PI and
other members of the group. There may be an opportu-
nity to extend the position based on the availability of
other funding.
The position would be ideal for a highly motivated
individual with an interest in sexual antagonism or
more generally in evolutionary biology and/or genet-
ics/genomics. The candidate should be familiar with
principles of molecular biology and have training or
experience with bioinformatics or advanced statistical
analysis. Direct experience of working with data gener-
ated from molecular markers (microsatellites or SNPs)
would be a distinct advantage. Knowledge of or expe-
rience with genomic or genetic data from Drosophila
is not necessary but may be advantageous. A proven
record of publishing peer-reviewed articles as a main
author is essential. The candidate should have excel-
lent organizational and communication skills and work
conscientiously. The post-holder must have a PhD in a
biological or related subject.
Further information on the research of the Morrow
lab can be found at: http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/-
morrowlab/index A recent paper on the large genomic
dataset that is available has just been peer-reviewed at
F1000 Research: https://f1000research.com/articles/-
5-2644/v1 Candidates are welcome to make informal
enquiries to the PI via email: ted.morrow@sussex.ac.uk
An overview of research within the Evolution, Be-
haviour and Environment theme can be found at http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ebe/ The School of Life Sci-
ences is at the forefront of research in the biological
sciences in the UK, coming in the top 10 in the REF
2014. The School is committed to equality and valuing
diversity, and currently holds an Athena SWAN Silver
Award. Applications are particularly welcomed from
women and black and minority ethnic candidates, who
are under-represented in academic posts in science and
engineering at Sussex. The School of Life Sciences wel-
comes applications to academic posts from candidates
who wish to work part-time or as job-sharers.
The University oers various schemes to provide
real benets to parents, these can be found at
http://www.sussex.ac.uk/humanresources/personnel/-
familyfriendlypolicies Brighton is a lively multicultural
city on the south coast of England, 20 minutes from
Gatwick International Airport and around 1 hour from
the centre of London (by train). Apart from the famous
sea front and piers of Brighton and Hove, and the
stunning white chalk clis along the south coast, the
University of Sussex campus at Falmer is nestled in the
beautiful South Downs National Park - next door to
Stanmer country park and from the picturesque villageof Lewes.
Ted Morrow <Ted.Morrow@sussex.ac.uk >
UtahStateU Macroevolution
Hello everyone,
I'm looking for a post-doc to join my lab at Utah State
University. The position would suit anyone with a good
background in macro-evolutionary models and/or com-
munity ecology, and would be desk-based. I've copy-
pasted the details at the bottom of this email; if you're
interested, please email me (will.pearse@usu.edu) to ask
for more details.
Thanks,
Will Pearse
Website with details and application instructions: http:/-
/usu.hiretouch.com/job-details?jobid=1983 We are
seeking a post-doctoral researcher to participate in a
project linking the macro-evolution of species' traits
with their present-day ecological distributions. The
project is aimed at understanding how ecological as-
sembly processes aect the evolution of species' traits
and speciation/extinction rates. The post-doctoral re-
searcher will be expected to develop new methods to
address questions at the interfaces of community ecology,
biogeography, and evolutionary biology. The position
is for one year with the likelihood of extension up to 2
years total.
## Responsibilities: The successful candidate will be
responsible for a number of duties and be expected to:
* Work well in a collaborative, inter-disciplinary en-
vironment. * Develop novel analytical approaches. *
Maintain a solid publication record. * Analyze data
and prepare material for publication and presentation
both in written and oral formats. * Take an active role
in the lab. This includes working with and mentoring
(where appropriate) lab members, and giving feedback
on manuscripts and grant proposals.
## Minimum Qualications:
* Ph.D. in biology or a closely related discipline * Good
understanding of literature in at least one of the elds
of macro-evolution, community ecology, and biogeogra-
phy * Expertise in statistical analysis in an open source
environment (e.g., R) * Strong oral and written commu-
nication and interpersonal skills * Experience mentoring
undergraduate studentsJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 145
## Preferred Qualications:
* Experience working with large datasets * Comfortable
working across elds * Good understanding of literature
in several of the elds of trait evolution, community ecol-
ogy, and biogeography * History of previous research
funding success
Will<will.pearse@gmail.com >
UTurku HumanLifeHistory
Post-doctoral research position in human evolutionary
ecology
Overview: Our multidisciplinary research team is look-
ing for a post-doctoral researcher for a three-year project
investigating life history, social integration and the inu-
ence of kin in forced migrants in a 20th century Finnish
population. The project is an exciting opportunity to
investigate the consequences of forced migration of over
400000 people during World War II from an evolution-
ary ecology and sociology viewpoint. These migrants
encountered much the same traumas and faced similar
prejudices and resentment that current migrants face
today, making the study of this population particularly
appropriate to gain insight into the present and future
of current migrants.
The project, headed by Dr. John Loehr, is
funded by Kone Foundation for the period 2017-
2020. http://www.koneensaatio./en/hanke/learning-
from-our-past/ Job description: We are looking for an
enthusiastic and motivated new member to our team
who will develop new research questions along with
contributions and guidance from other team members,
independently manage and statistically analyse large
and complex datasets, and write scientic publications
from the results.
Start date for the position is February 1, 2017 or as
agreed. The position is funded for 3 years, and an initial
contract of 1 year will be oered with a 3 month trial pe-
riod. Payment is in the form of a grant (2700euro/month,
largely tax free income). The work location is exible
and can be done at The University of Turku, Lammi
Biological Station (University of Helsinki), Family Fed-
eration of Finland (Helsinki) or University of Jyv askyl a
or a combination of these places. The successful can-
didate will join the Human Life History Group headed
by Finnish Academy Professor Virpi Lummaa; a group
internationally renowned for its innovative and cuttingedge research on human life history (http://human-life-
history.science/).
Ideal candidate descriptors:
- PhD degree in evolutionary ecology, sociology or related
eld
- Strong statistics background, preferably with experi-
ence in Bayesian analysis
- Background in population level analyses of large data
sets
- Good publication track record
- Self-motivated and enthusiastic with good teamwork
and communication skills
- Ability to lead and supervise research assistants
- A keen interest in human evolutionary ecology
How to apply: Application deadline: 30 December
2016 at 24:00. Submit an e-mail to John Loehr
(john.loehr@helsinki.) with the subject heading 'POST-
DOC APPLICATION', with the following documents
combined into ONE pdf le:
- A cover letter describing your research interests and
suitable for the job - A detailed CV including a list
of publications as well as other achievements - Two
reference letters from people who can be contacted
by telephone or e-mail before or after the interview.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews in
person or by Skype in early January 2017. For more
information please contact John Loehr +358-504151726
/ john.loehr@helsinki..
Our research team is greatly looking forward to your
application!
John Loehr, Lammi Biological Station, University of
Helsinki Mirkka Danielsbacka, University of Turku Virpi
Lummaa, University of Turku Johanna Mappes, Uni-
versity of Jyv askyl a Jenni Pettay, University of Turku
Anna Rotkirch, Family Federation of Finland
\Loehr, John A" <john.loehr@helsinki. >
UWitwatersrand
StripedMouseProject
Postdoctoral fellowship South Africa.
Success in an unpredictable habitat: geographic unpre-
dictability and social exibility146 EvolDir January 1, 2017
(University of the Witwatersrand, South Arica; Succu-
lent Karoo Research Station; CNRS Strasbourg, France)
A 24 month postdoc position is available in the
elds of Behavioral Ecology and Eco-Physiology in the
Striped Mouse Research Group www.stripedmouse.com
of Dr Neville Pillay https://www.wits.ac.za/apes and
Dr Carsten Schradin http://www.iphc.cnrs.fr/-Carsten-
Schradin-.html. The postdoc will be employed by the
University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa, collect
data in the Succulent Karoo Research Station and possi-
bly do laboratory work at the Institut Pluridisciplinaire
Hubert Curien, Departement d'Ecologie Physiologie et
Ethologie (DEPE), France's largest eco-physiology lab-
oratory.
Research topic. The striped mouse is well known for its
social exibility: it can live either in groups or solitarily.
Previous long-term studies over 8 years revealed that the
lower the population density, the more striped mice live
solitarily. Now we want to test whether social exibility,
which is adaptive due to environmental variation over
time, is also an adaptation to geographic variation.
In the Succulent Karoo, striped mice live in relatively
small demes of several hundred to a few thousand indi-
viduals along dry riverbeds. These demes are isolated
from each other via habitat that is uninhabitable for
striped mice due to the lack of cover and food. Using ge-
netic markers, we found that striped mice disperse over
these unoccupied habitats to nd other striped mouse
demes several km away, travelling through hostile envi-
ronments. However, they are unaware of the prevailing
conditions in these dierent habitats. We know that it
is mainly striped mice of below average body mass that
disperse over these areas, possibly making the best of a
bad job.
The postdoc will study 8 demes of striped mice (Rhab-
domys pumilio) within the Goegap Nature Reserve in
the Succulent Karoo of South Africa simultaneously
during one breeding season, with the help of 8 research
assistants. We expect to nd signicant dierences be-
tween demes in 1) mean body mass of adult breeders; 2)
population density; and 3) social organisation, especially
the ratio of solitary vs. group-living individuals. The
main eld site is well established, and the population
has been permanently monitored by a team at the re-
search station for over a decade. Striped mice will be
trapped, marked, and observed, and blood samples will
be collected for hormone analyzes in Strasbourg.
Objectives
1. Relate geographic variation in population density to
social exibility.
2. Study the adaptive value of male dispersal.3. Study the endocrine modulators of emigration and
social exibility, with a focus on testosterone and corti-
costerone levels.
4. Analyse and publish long-term data in the rst year
Salary: This position is funded by the University of the
Witwatersrand with a very competitive salary of R 198
432/ year, which allows for a comfortable standard of
living in South Africa. In addition, medical aid is paid
by the University as well as relocation costs of R10 000.
Starting date: July to November 2017 (variable).
Time schedule: The postdoc will rst help with data
collection in Goegap to become familiar with all eld
techniques. Up until April 2018, she/he will analy-
size and publish existing long-term data. The topic of
this long term data will be discussed, but could be un-
derstanding the evolutionary, ecological and endocrine
reasons for the occurrence of bachelor (all male) groups
during some breeding seasons, or a project on socio-
genetics, using a 8 years pedigree database. From May
2018 onwards, the dierent eld sites will be prepared
and research technicians trained. Main data collection
will be from 1st July to 15th October 2018. Afterwards,
data will be analysed and published.
Prole and requirements for the candidate:
- Must have obtained your PhD within the last 5 years
- Enthusiastic about eld work with the willingness to
spend 9 months /year in the eld.
- Good organizational skills and the ability to work
independently.
- Good personal skills and ability to lead a research team
- You can produce outstanding academic results!
- Strong background in eco-physiology and/or behavioral
ecology.
- Very good writing skills proven by a good publication
record.
- Good technical skills.
- Strong experimental, analytical and statistical skills.
Applicants should send a cover letter detailing their mo-
tivation and expectations of this position, a CV, and con-
tact information of at least two referees combined into a
single PDF to Neville Pillay (Neville.Pillay@wits.ac.za)
and Carsten Schradin
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 147
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona IntroPhylogenetics Jun26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . 147
Berlin RNA-seqAnalysis Jun12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148
Berlin ScienticWriting Mar28-29 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149
ColoradoStateU GenomicsOfDiseaseInWildlife Jun3-7
150
ErasmusMundus Program EvolutionaryBiology . . .151
Glasgow Bioinformatics Jul3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
Guarda Switzerland Evolution Jun17-24 . . . . . . . . . .153
LiveVideo NatSelectionGenomicData Dec16-18 . . . 153MaxPlanckInst EvolBio OnePastHealth DeadlineDec21
153
MNHN Paris DNABarcodesTaxonomy Mar13-17 . 154
Naples EMBOPopulationGenomics May18-26 . . . . 154
NGSTraining . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
Portugal EvolBiol Jan-Feb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
Switzerland EvolBiol Jun17-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
Venice EvoDevo Sep18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
Barcelona IntroPhylogenetics
Jun26-30
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the course \Introduction to
Phylogenetic Inference and its Applications".
Dates: June 26th-30th, 2017.
Instructors: Dr. Miquel Arnedo (Universitat de
Barcelona, Spain) y Dr. Salvador Carranza (Institut of
Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-UPF, Spain).
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauraci o i In-
terpretaci o Paleontologica, Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain).
During this course instructors will guide attenders and
will provide training in conceptual and practical aspects
of biological systematics. They will present the main
methods of phylogenetic inference (parsimony, maxi-
mum likelihood and Bayesian inference), evolutionary
models, data combinability, the estimation of divergence
times and the use of quantitative approaches to species
delimitation. Moreoverm in hands on computer sessions,
we will introduce the most widely used computer pro-
grams for building alignments, selecting evolutionary
models, inferring trees under alternative assumptions,
estimating divergence times and delimiting species.
The participants are welcome to bring their own data
and problems to be used during the practical sessions.
The course is aimed at advanced undergrads, PhD stu-
dents, post-docs and faculty interested in the use ofphylogenies for addressing evolutionary and ecological
questions but with limited background in systematics
and phylogenetic inference. All participants must bring
their own personal laptop.
Registration and more info: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/phylogeny/-
introduction-phylogenetic-inference-applications/
PROGRAM: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/phylogeny/introduction-phylogenetic-inference-
applications/#program This course is organized by
Transmitting Science, the Institut Catal a de Paleon-
tologia and the Centre de Restauraci o i Interpretaci o
Paleontologica.
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD. Scientic Direc-
tor Transmitting Science www.transmittingscience.org
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org148 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Berlin RNA-seqAnalysis Jun12-16
Using the Trinity Framework for De novo Transcrip-
tome Assembly, Annotation, and Downstream Expres-
sion Studies
June 12-16, 2017, Berlin (Germany)
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course11/ In-
structors:
Brian Haas http://www.physalia-courses.org/-
instructors/t12/ (Senior Computational Biologist at
the Broad Institute)
Timothy Tickle http://www.physalia-courses.org/-
instructors/t13/ (Senior Software Engineer at the Broad
Institute)
Course Overview:
RNA-Seq technology has been transformative in our abil-
ity to explore gene content and gene expression in all
realms of biology, and de novo transcriptome assembly
has enabled opportunities to expand transcriptome anal-
ysis to non-model organisms. This workshop provides
an overview of modern applications of transcriptome
sequencing and popular tools and algorithms for explor-
ing transcript reconstruction and expression analysis
in a genome-free manner, leveraging the Trinity soft-
ware and analysis framework. Attendees will perform
quality assessment of Illumina RNA-Seq data, assem-
ble a transcriptome using Trinity, quantify transcript
expression, leverage Bioconductor tools for dierential
expression analysis, and apply Trinotate to functionally
annotate transcripts. Additional methods will be ex-
plored for characterizing the assembled transcriptome
and revealing biological ndings.
Intended Audience:
This workshop is aimed primarily at biologist researchers
that have basic bioinformatics skills and are pursuing
RNA-Seq projects in non-model organisms. Attendees
will gain skills needed to successfully approach tran-
scriptome sequencing, de novo transcriptome assembly,
expression analysis, and functional annotation as applied
to organisms lacking a high quality reference genome
sequence.
Teaching format:
The workshop will be delivered over the course of four
and a half days, with each session entailing lecturesfollowed by practical hands-on sessions. Most all com-
puting will be done on the cloud and attendees will use
their own laptop computers with the Google Chrome
web browser providing all the necessary interfaces to
the cloud computing environment, including the linux
command terminal.
Assumed background for the participants:
Basic experience with linux command-line execution and
execution of bioinformatics tools would be helpful. We
will begin the course with a review of basic linux com-
mands and operations as a refresher. No programming
or scripting knowledge is required.
Curriculum:
Day 1: Intro to the Trinity RNA-Seq workshop
* Intro to RNA-Seq * Intro to next-gen sequence analysis
* Overview of unix and workshop setup o Practical: ex-
ploring the computational infrastructure * Read quality
assessment and trimming o Practical: using FASTQC
and TRIMMOMATIC
Day 2: Trinity de novo assembly, expression quantita-
tion, and assembly QC
* Overview of Trinity de novo transcriptome assembly o
Practical: assemble rna-seq data using Trinity * Intro
to expression quantication using RNA-Seq o Practical:
quantify expression for Trinity assembly * Initial data
exploration: assembly quality, and QC samples and
replicates o Practical: using IGV o Practical: replicate
correlation matrix and PCA
Day 3: Dierential expression analysis
* Overview of statistical methods for dierential expres-
sion (DE). o Practical: using Bioconductor tools for DE
analysis. * Transcript clustering and expression pro-
ling o Practical: generating heatmaps and extracting
transcript clusters.
Day 4: Functional annotation and Functional enrich-
ment studies
* Overview of methods for functional annotation o Prac-
tical: applying Trinotate to nd coding regions in tran-
scripts and predict biological function. * Overview of
functional enrichment analysis o Practical: applying
GOseq to identify signicantly enriched Gene Ontology
categories among transcript clusters.
Day 5: Review and custom data analyses
Further information:
The cost is 530 euros (VAT included) including refresh-
ments and course material. We also oer an all-inclusive
option at 795 euros (VAT included), including course
material, breakfast, lunch, dinner, refreshments, andJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 149
accommodation.
Application deadline is the 12th of May 2017.
{
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses Coordinator
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin ScienticWriting Mar28-29 2
Dear all,
we still have a few places available on our \Scientic
Writing: organization and motivation booster" Work-
shop, 28-29 March 2017 in Berlin Germany
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course7/ In-
structor: Dr. Andrea Sanchini (Robert Koch Institut,
Berlin)
Overview
Scientic writing is hard. Young students have dicul-
ties in writing their articles or theses and at the same
time carrying out their research projects. Supervisors
and Professors have diculties to train younger scien-
tists in scientic writing. In addition, the standards for
the publication of research articles and other scientic
documents are increasing. This course is intended to be
very pragmatic: we will develop a set of how-to infor-
mation for writing research articles and for increasing
writing productivity. The aim of this course is to give to
participants the knowledge and the tools to change and
improve their routine writing activities. At the end of
the course the participants will became more organized
and motivated in scientic writing.
Teaching format
The instructor provides lectures and tips from own writ-
ing experience. Participants will do writing exercises in-
dividually and in groups in order to apply the knowledge
acquired during the lectures. The instructor provides
also practical examples on how to use software useful for
scientic writing. There will be enough time to share
feedback and challenges in group discussions.
Preparing for the courseDuring the course, participants can draft part of their
next writing project (one to two pages). This project
can be a research article or a thesis.
Therefore participants are asked to decide in advance
which writing task they want to do during the course.
Intended audience
The course is especially useful for PhD candidates of
Natural, Life and Social Sciences faculties at any stage
of their PhD. The course is also useful for young stu-
dents such as Bachelor and Master Students of the same
faculties in order to make them already familiar with
the process of scientic writing. More experienced sci-
entists and researchers can also take advantage of the
course, since they can improve their writing skills and
productivity.
Course Program
1st Day
Session 1: Challenges in scientic writing
In the rst session of the course participants will get fa-
miliar with the basic principles of scientic writing. The
instructor will show the common challenges and typical
blocks regarding scientic writing. The instructor will
also show misconceptions about scientic writing and
wrong habits that lead to write slowly and to produce
poor texts. The participants will then learn about the
dierent stages of the writing process, and how to eec-
tively organize their writing projects. At the end of the
session participants will also explore the most common
causes of unclear scientic writing.
Session 2: Structure of a research article
Here the instructor presents the main sections of a re-
search articles: Introduction, Methods, Results, Discus-
sion, References and Abstract. Particular importance
will be given to the paragraph structure, which can be
used as basic writing unit of a research article. The
instructor will also present how to manage the ow of
information in scientic writing.
2nd Day
Session 3: Figures and Tables
In this session the instructor will explain how to eec-
tively present the scientic information in gures and
tables in a clear and unambiguous way. In addition,
information on how to write gure and table legends
will also be provided.
Session 4: Writing productivity
Here the instructor shows the dierent types of writ-
ers and their respective advantages and disadvantages
for scientic writing. The instructor will show several150 EvolDir January 1, 2017
techniques, software and motivational tools to increase
the writing productivity and remove writers' blocks.
The aim is to show that writing productivity is a skill
that can be learned and mastered with discipline and
commitment.
Session 5: Self- and team-management of the writing
process
In the last session the instructor will focus on the man-
agement part of scientic writing. Specically the team
work among co-authors and supervisors, how to organize
the time eectively in order to reach the writing goals,
how to plan the writing projects and how to increase
eciency through self-assessment.
Further information:
The cost is 350 euros (VAT included) including refresh-
ments and course material. We also oer an all-inclusive
package at 460 euros (VAT included), including course
material, refreshments, accomodation and meals (break-
fast, lunch, dinner).
{
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses Coordinator
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
Skype: carlo pecoraro
ColoradoStateU
GenomicsOfDiseaseInWildlife
Jun3-7
Where: Colorado State University Colorado What: Ge-
nomics of Disease in Wildlife Workshop When: June
3-11, 2017
Website for more information and application instruc-
tions: www.gdw2017workshop.colostate.edu Applica-
tion Deadline: February 1, 2017
Email inquiries: CVMBS genomics2017@mail.colostate.edu
Overview:
Title: Genomics of Disease in Wildlife: A Workshop
Location: Lory Conference Student Center, ColoradoState University, Fort Collins, CO
Dates: June 3-11, 2017
Website: www.gdw2017workshop.colostate.edu Appli-
cation deadline: February 1, 2017.
Wildlife biodiversity can be drastically aected by the
outbreak and transmission of disease pathogens in both
natural habitats and ex situ populations. Recent tech-
nological advances in genomic sciences and increasingly
aordable Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) assay
costs have coalesced to result in powerful tools to moni-
tor, detect, and reconstruct the past, present and future
role of pathogens within wildlife biodiversity. This short
course will provide hands-on training for graduate level
and above researchers in wildlife disease related disci-
plines seeking to incorporate genomic data into their
projects. The course will be taught by a core group of
experts in genome data analyses with invited faculty
comprised of pre-eminent scientists performing cutting
edge of research in host-pathogen genomics in wildlife.
Why is the course needed?
Advances in genomic technology now provide an ex-
traordinary opportunity to rapidly assess the impact of
disease in wildlife biodiversity, management, and con-
servation. Wildlife researchers are uniquely positioned
to merge ecological, biological, and evolutionary studies
with genomic technologies to generate unprecedented
Big Data tools in disease research. The workshop will
provide a venue to accomplish this goal, will provide
networking opportunities for colleagues from intersect-
ing interests, and will advance genomic tools in wildlife
disease investigations.
How will the course address the need?
The course will provide essential training to wildlife
biologists, veterinarians, conservation managers, and
related experts to successfully incorporate NGS data
in wildlife research. Attendees will conduct hands-on
analyses of real world genomic data of both host and
pathogen. The course will provide: (1) an overview of
current bioinformatics developments and approaches;
(2) guidance to implement genomic tools in study de-
sign; (3) NGS data analysis and interpretation; and, (4)
opportunities for interaction with peers, core faculty,
and invited experts.
Workshop Syllabus
The workshop will cover a typical workow com-
monly used in NGS analyses starting with the initial
raw sequence through the nal stages of identifying
host:pathogen variants linked with disease. Each of
the eight days of the workshop will cover an essential
component of the NGS workow in succession.January 1, 2017 EvolDir 151
Morning sessions will be a series of instructional lec-
tures and demonstrations that will concisely present
the purpose, justication and implementation of the
specic workow unit. Short and exciting ash talks
presented by CSU faculty will present some of their on-
going investigations using genomic tools in wildlife dis-
ease. The afternoon sessions will be computer-intensive
labs in which attendees will perform hands-on analyses
with real-world genomic data for each workow topic.
Evening plenary lectures from invited faculty will con-
clude each days activities.
Teaching tools will include exercises using real-world
NGS data from a range of pathogens and host species.
Participants will learn the importance of integrating
NGS data from both host and pathogen in order to
better understand current epidemics in wildlife.
For the duration of the course, each attendee will be
provided with a MacBook Pro computer and peripheral
equipment, and prepared genome datasets from several
host species and associated pathogens. These datasets
will be organized into various les and formats prior
to the course, demonstrate key concepts, and be the
foundation for computer exercises and teaching tools.
Summary of Workshop Schedule
Day 1: Arrival, Registration and Opening Reception.
The workshop begins in the evening of Sunday June 3,
2017 at the Lory Conference Center. A welcome session
will introduce faculty and an overview of the workshop.
An informal welcome reception follows with faculty, sta
and participants.
Day 2: Optimizing NGS data and study design. Lec-
tures and computer labs will introduce the dierent
types of NGS data and how to best use these data in
the study of disease in wildlife. Topics will include the
latest advances in NGS technologies, NGS denitions,
examples, applications, and experimental design. Com-
puter lab will introduce host and pathogen datasets for
the workshop, methods in genome mining, and navigat-
ing genome browsers.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlErasmusMundus Program
EvolutionaryBiology
Erasmus Mundus Master Program in Evolutionary Bi-
ology (MEME)
MEME is a two-year research oriented master program
for talented and motivated students who are interested
in understanding evolution in all its facets. It intends to
provide an optimal preparation for subsequent doctoral
studies and eventually a career in academic research.
The MEME program addresses the driving forces of
evolution at all levels of organismal organization (from
cells and individuals to populations and ecosystems),
and allows students to study all kinds of organisms (mi-
croorganisms, plants, animals) in all kinds of habitats
(marine as well as terrestrial) with a diversity of ap-
proaches (eld, lab, theory). The focus of the program
is not only on how evolution shaped life on our planet in
the past, but also on how understanding the principles
underlying evolution can provide new insights and help
to cope with present-day challenges in a variety of elds,
including ecology, epidemiology, physiology, immunol-
ogy, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics, economics and
the social sciences.
To oer a program of such broad scope, four Euro-
pean universities (University of Groningen, Netherlands;
University of Montpellier, France; Ludwig Maximilians
University of Munich, Germany; Uppsala University,
Sweden), have joined forces with Harvard University
(USA). Together, this consortium has put together an
attractive multidisciplinary program that meets high-
est standards. All students have to study at (at least)
two partner universities, and they will receive a double
degree from two partner universities they have attended.
Being nanced by the European Community, MEME
has to satisfy the high quality standards imposed the
prestigious Erasmus+ Program. A limited number of full
scholarships is available for European and non-European
students and these will be awarded in a selective pro-
cedure. Details on the program and the selection pro-
cedure can be found on www.evobio.eu . Starting date:
15 August 2017
Application deadline: 1 February 2017
Please alert your students to this great opportunity!
More information and how to apply - please see152 EvolDir January 1, 2017
www.evobio.eu Questions about the contents of the
program:
Franjo Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
Questions about the requirements and the application
procedure:
Maartje Giesbers (m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl)
Glasgow Bioinformatics Jul3-7
'Bioinformatics for geneticists and biologists (BIGB02)
Delivered by Dr. Nic Blouin and Dr Ian Misner
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-
geneticists-and-biologists-bigb02/ This course will run
from 3rd - 7th July 2017 at SCENE Field Station, Loch
Lomond, Glasgow
OVERVIEW The handling of large datasets has become
intractable without some level of bioinformatic literacy.
Many biologists nd that there is a steep learning curve
to develop the condence required to explore their ge-
nomics datasets eectively. This bioinformatics short
course includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction
and lectures specically intended to help novice users
become comfortable with a range of tools currently used
to analyse next-generation data.
INTENDED AUDIENCE The course is aimed at anyone
interested in learning bioinformatics tools needed for
handling large genomic datasets.
Course content is as follows
Monday 3rd - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 1:
Linux. Linux is taught on the rst day, this takes the
entire day. Once you get through this portion you will
be on your way to completing your own NGS analysis.
We have created a workbook for this portion of the
course. This is a step-by-step, or in the case, command-
by-command, Linux guide. We complete each command
as a class and discuss and review issues along the way.
Tuesday 4th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 2:
RNAseq. We will cover two of the more popular tools
in this workshop, The Tuxedo package & Trinity. Out-
comes; Condence to design eective RNAseq experi-
ments. Knowledge of NGS sequencing platforms and
their diering applications, ability to analyze Illumina
data for quality and contamination. Prociency to im-
plement the Tuxedo package to analyze an RNAseq
dataset.Create publication ready graphics with cum-meRbund and EdgeR.
Wednesday 5th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module
3: Assembly. Whether you have a reference genome or
are working with de novo samples there are some basic
tools and practices that we cover to help assist you in
your genome project. In this module we will cover the
basic metrics you should review when doing assembly
as well as best practices to consider in your own project.
Outcomes; Take raw reads through a complete assem-
bly process. Working knowledge of dierent assembly
issues/challenges. The eect of assembly settings on
assembly outcomes.
Thursday 6th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module
4: Annotation. We will use MAKER and Blast2GO
and annotate the genome we assembled in the assembly
module. Outcomes; Understand the dierences between
functional and structural annotations. Train MAKER
to improve structural annotations. Understand how
MAKER improves with more evidence and training;
visualize structural annotations. Apply functional an-
notations with Blast2GO.
Friday 7th - Classes from 09:00 to 16:00 Module 5:
Python. Why Python? In truth it doesn't matter what
coding language you learn but you should learn one.
Python has a very straightforward syntax that is easy
to understand.In this module we will utilise the clearly
explained training examples from Python for Biologists.
Outcomes; Understand Python language syntax. Cre-
ate scripts to answer biological problems & parse and
analyse BLAST outputs using custom Python code.
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
1. MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (January 2017) http:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/model-base-multivariate-
analysis-of-abundance-data-using-r-mbmv01/ 2.
ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (Febru-
ary 2017) http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advanced-python-biologists-apyb01/ 3. STABLE
ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R (February 2017)
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-isotope-
mixing-models-using-r-simm03/ 4. NETWORK
ANAYLSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (March
2017) http://www.prstatistics.com/course/network-
analysis-ecologists-ntwa01/ 5. ADVANCES IN
MULTIVAIRAITE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL ECO-January 1, 2017 EvolDir 153
LOGICAL DATA (April 2017)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Guarda Switzerland Evolution
Jun17-24
It is my pleasure to announce the 2017 Guarda sum-
mer school in Evolutionary Biology for master and PhD
students. The main aim of the course is to develop
the skills to produce an independent research project in
evolutionary biology.
The summer school takes place 17. - 24. June
in the Swiss mountain village Guarda. Faculty in-
cludes Rosemary and Peter Grant (Princeton University,
USA), Dolph Schluter (University of British Columbia,
Canada), Sebastian Bonhoeer (ETH-Zurich, Switzer-
land) and Dieter Ebert (Basel University, Switzerland;
organizer).
The course is intended for master students and early
PhD students with a keen interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
The web page with all details:
http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/-
index.htm Application is open now. Deadline is 1.
February 2017
Please communicate this information to interested stu-
dents.
With best wishes,
dieter ebert
{
Dieter Ebert
University of Basel,
Zoological Institute,
Vesalgasse 1,
4051 Basel,
Switzerland
Tel. +41 (0)61 267 03 60
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch\dieter.ebert@unibas.ch" <dieter.ebert@unibas.ch >
LiveVideo
NatSelectionGenomicData Dec16-18
VIDEO STREAMING of the workshop \Inferring nat-
ural selection from genomic data", will be available
starting at 2PM (local time), December 16, 2016.
http://seatv.unife.it/ The workshop is held in Ferrara,
Italy. See the web site http://www.sibe2016.it/ for the
program.
Regards Giorgio Bertorelle
Giorgio Bertorelle Department of Life Sciences
and Biotechnology University of Ferrara http://-
docente.unife.it/giorgio.bertorelle Phone +39 0532
455743 Fax: +39 0532 249761
Bertorelle Giorgio <ggb@unife.it >
MaxPlanckInst EvolBio
OnePastHealth DeadlineDec21
This is a reminder for our workshop on zoonotic diseases,
host-parasite coevolution and ancient DNA (aDNA).
*Deadline is Dec 21 !!*
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology and
the Robert Koch Institute are organizing the workshop
*One Past Health*
- Understanding past zoonotic events to predict future
ones -
from February 15th to 17th, 2017, at the Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Biology in Ploen/Germany.
http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/OnePastHealth This work-
shop aims to foster the interdisciplinary dialog between
medical, veterinary and biological sciences, bringing to-
gether empirical and theoretical researchers interested
in disease ecology, epidemiology, host-pathogen coevolu-
tion, paleogenomics, and more. The resulting interac-
tions will promote interdisciplinary scientic progress
and may ultimately help uncovering ways to prevent
future zoonotic events.
Synopsis: Many infectious diseases that are of high154 EvolDir January 1, 2017
public health relevance today nd their roots in past
zoonotic events, e.g. the HIV-1 pandemics. Similarly,
for these infectious diseases involving recurrent transmis-
sion from zoonotic reservoirs, most transmission events
lie in the past, e.g. the historical pandemics of Yersinia
pestis. These past events are an immense, precious
and underexplored record of the processes leading to
zoonotic emergence.
We have some tools to indirectly frame the context of
zoonotic events. Historical outbreak records are such a
tool but unfortunately often reveal a very unclear source
of information. Over the last 2 decades, we took advan-
tage of major advances in molecular biology, statistics
and computational sciences to leverage the power of a
natural record of the evolutionary history: the genetic di-
versity of present-day pathogens. This information was
used to determine the origin in time and space as well
as the later spread of Ebola viruses or HIV-1. But what
if we could travel back in time and observe what really
happened? We could then directly test the hypotheses
we derive from present-day genetic diversity and catch
evolution red-handed at crucial steps of the emergence
process. Ancient DNA (aDNA) approaches are now
ripe to simultaneously investigate the evolution of many
pathogens (including zoonotic ones) and the evolution of
the immune system of their hosts. This maturity nicely
coincides with the development of modeling frameworks
that allow us to make the most of heterochronous data
and to describe individual pathogen trajectories in the
context of the microbial communities they belong to.
Conrmed keynote speakers are:
Charlie Nunn, Duke University, USA Christian Drosten,
Uni Bonn, Germany Frank Kirchho, Uni Ulm, Ger-
many Simone Sommer, Uni Ulm, Germany Philippe
Lemey, KU Leuven, Belgium Johannes Krause, MPI-
SHH, Germany
Registration: There will be some slots for contributed
talks as well as a poster session. Registration is on a
rst-come-rst-serve basis. Deadline for registration is
December 21st 2016. Please see the registration page
on the workshop website for more details:
http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/OnePastHealth
Organizers: Sebastien Calvignac, Robert Koch
Institute, Berlin Tobias Lenz, MPI for Evolutionary
Biology, Ploen
Dr. Tobias Lenz, Group Leader Emmy Noether Group
for Evolutionary Immunogenomics Department of Evo-
lutionary Ecology Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Biology August-Thienemann-Str. 2 24306 Ploen, Ger-
many Tel: +49 4522 763-228 Fax: +49 4522 763-310
Email: lenz@evolbio.mpg.dehttp://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
EvolutionaryImmunogenomics \lenz@evolbio.mpg.de"
<lenz@evolbio.mpg.de >
MNHN Paris
DNABarcodesTaxonomy Mar13-17
The course \Integrative taxonomy and taxonomic exper-
tise : DNA barcodes in the genomic era" will be from
the 13th to the 17th of March, 2016 at the MNHN of
Paris, France.
This course is also part of the DEST- Taxonomy training
program (http://www.taxonomytraining.eu/).
The course is in English. To register, please ll
the form on the website of the course (https://-
sites.google.com/site/coursbarcode/inscription-1 <
https://sites.google.com/site/coursbarcode/ >) before
the the 3rd of January, 2017.
If you have any question, please contact: Line
Le Gall (legall@mnhn.fr) Nicolas Puillandre (puillan-
dre@mnhn.fr) Sarah Samadi (sarah@mnhn.fr)
nicolaspuillandre@gmail.com
Naples EMBOPopulationGenomics
May18-26
EMBO, in collaboration with the Elixir-ITA, Isita and
the IGB-CNR, is pleased to inform you that the applica-
tions for the upcoming training course on \Population
Genomics: background and tools" are now open.
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course: Deadline for
applications: 24/02/2017 Latest notication of accep-
tance: 10/03/2017 Course date: 18-26/05/2017 Venue:
National Research Council, Institute of Genetics and
Biophysics, via P. Castellino 111, 80131 Naples, Italy
A maximum of 24 candidates will be selected based on
their application. Notications of acceptance will be
sent shortly after the closing date of registration.
Full details, including the course programme and the
application form, at: http://meetings.embo.org/event/-
17-population-genomics Instructors: Aida Andres (MaxJanuary 1, 2017 EvolDir 155
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Ger-
many) Andrea Manica (University of Cambridge, UK)
Andrew Clark (Cornell University, USA) Garrett Hel-
lenthal (University College London, UK) Ida Moltke
(University of Copenhagen, Denmark) Martin Sikora
(Natural History Museum of Denmark, Denmark) Math-
ias Currat (Universit e de Gen eve, Switzerland) Olivier
Delaneau (Universit e de Gen eve, Switzerland) Pascale
Gerbault (University of Westminster, UK)
Course description Study methods in population ge-
nomics have been profoundly reshaped in the last few
years thanks to the growing availability of complete
genomic sequences at population level. The rapid and
recent growth of data and methods calls for new ap-
proaches to become routine in evolutionary genomics lab-
oratories. The objective of this EMBO Practical Course
is to give an overview of state of the art methods in pop-
ulation genomics combining lecturing from outstanding
experienced population geneticists and software devel-
opers. All conceptual innovation will be presented in
lectures and applied in practice both individually and
in group work. Practicals includes computer exercises
supervised by lecturers and training assistants. After
attending the course participants will be aware of up-to-
date concepts in population genetics, capable of running
analyses using software based on whole genome data
sequences and able to deal with basic aspects of any
population genomics project. This EMBO Practical
Course aims at evolutionary biologists who already have
bioinformatics skills. PhD students and Post-Doc re-
searchers will benet the most out of this course, but
applications from all candidates will be evaluated in
their context.
Thank you for your interest, The Organisers
Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK) Vincenza
Colonna (CNR, Napoli, IT) Allegra Via (CNR, Bari,
IT)
\cb334@leicester.ac.uk" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk >
NGSTraining
Have your say on Bioinformatics and NGS training
New to NGS? Struggling with bioinformatics? Looking
for help?
University of Leicester's Bioinformatics and Biostatis-
tics Analysis Support Hub (BBASH) oers courses in
bioinformatics with an emphasis on next-generation se-quencing.
To help us understand your training needs we invite you
to ll out this survey:
https://goo.gl/forms/3L31QIvtswAsyNLL2 Your re-
sponses will help us to shape our courses to your needs.
Bioinformatics and Biostatistics Analysis Support Hub
(BBASH) University of Leicester, University Road,
Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK w: www.le.ac.uk/bbash e:
ngstraining@leicester.ac.uk
ngstraining@leicester.ac.uk
Portugal EvolBiol Jan-Feb
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: four advanced courses
with deadlines January 2017
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes is organizing several Advanced Courses: see
below the four courses with closer deadlines.
Additional informations at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 Course
Biodiversity and Plant Evolution organized by Helena
Cotrim and Manuela Sim-Sim jJanuary 23-27, 2017@
Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: On completion of the course, the students
shall have acquired the following knowledge and under-
standing: Describe the main evolutionary acquisitions
on groups of the plant kingdom and its adaptive signi-
cance.
- Comprehend the modern plant phylogeny and its
sources of information. - Explain the underlying evolu-
tionary mechanisms of diversity and speciation in the
plant kingdom. - Describe the variety of pollination
syndromes, reproductive systems and population struc-
tures present in the plant kingdom, and explain the
mechanisms underlying this diversity. - Explain and
critically analyse how the genetic diversity and evolu-
tionary potential of plant populations are inuenced
by phenomena like phenotypic plasticity, seed banks,
hybridization, polyploidy and postglacial colonization
history. - Formulate hypotheses and propose methods
when studying evolutionary phenomena in wild plant
species.
Course instructors Helena Cotrim (hmcotrim@fc.ul.pt)
Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Sciences
of the University of Lisbon, researcher at the156 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmen-
tal Changes (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/-
helena-maria-da-conceiccedilatildeo-cotrim)
And
Maria Manuela Sim-Sim (msimsim@fc.ul.pt) Assistant
Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the University
of Lisbon, coordinator of the NHS research group at
the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmen-
tal Changes (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/-
maria-manuela-pinheiro-sim-sim)
Intended audience: This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 10 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolu-
tion, Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics.
Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related
area.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and Biology and Ecol-
ogy of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of
fees for other participants see the programme details
(access link below)
Deadline for applications: January 8th, 2017
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation
letter to Helena Cotrim (email hmcotrim@fc.ul.pt)
For additional details about the course and to know how
to register, click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
training/?cat=8 For more information about the
course, please contact: Helena Cotrim (email hm-
cotrim@fc.ul.pt) or Maria Manuela Sim-Sim (email:
msimsim@fc.ul.pt) Course Practical Course on Phyloge-
netics organized by Octavio Paulo jJanuary 30 -February
3 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: Phylogenetics is one of the scientic areas
of Biology that has grown fast and evolved in method-
ological terms in the last years. Its applications go from
the studies of the evolution of species and populations
to the least expected, as the study of the origin of the
AIDS virus or seasonal cycles of the u. The course is
aimed at students and professionals that intend to get
started in phylogenetic analysis as well as researchers
already with some experience wanting to deepen or up-
date their knowledge in the eld. The course consists of
theoretical classes as well as hands-on practical sessions
using software. Participants are encouraged to bring
their own sequence data for analysis.
Course instructor Octavio Paulo (oc-
tavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt) Professor at the Faculty of
Sciences of the University of Lisbon, researcher atthe Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/-
octaacutevio-s-paulo), Coordinator of the Compu-
tational Biology & Population Genomics Group
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/team/COBIG2)
Intended audience: This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 20 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolu-
tion, Genetics or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Switzerland EvolBiol Jun17-23
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
(The previous posting contained a typo in an invited
professor's name, for which we apologize.)
The 2017 edition of the Evolutionary Biology Work-
shop in the Alps will take place on 17-23 June 2017 in
Riederfurka, Switzerland.
Target participants are PhD students in early stages of
PhD and advanced Master students.
The main goals of this annual workshop, based on a con-
cept developed by Stephen Stearns and John Maynard
Smith, are to develop the following skills: - developing
your scientic ideas through discussions in groups; -
thinking critically and expressing oneself clearly; - turn-
ing a general idea into a research project; - writing a
research proposal and defending it.
Faculty: Lynda Delph (Indiana University) Curt Lively
(Indiana University) Noah Whiteman (University of Cal-
ifornia Berkeley) Sergio Rasmann (University of Neucha-
tel) Tadeusz Kawecki (University of Lausanne)
It is you, the students, who will be in charge in this
course. You will be divided in groups of 4-5 students.
In those groups, you will work on your ideas. You, as a
group, will decide what the important open questions
in broadly dened evolutionary biology are, you will
choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal for a re-
search project that will address it. The faculty will visit
the groups during the discussions to answer questions,January 1, 2017 EvolDir 157
provide coaching and give feedback on the projects, but
they will generally take the back seat. Additionally,
the faculty will give informal talks about their research
and be available for informal discussions with individual
students. At the end you will present your projects to
other participants, and we will party.
The workshop will take place in Villa Cassel (http://-
www.pronatura-aletsch.ch/home-en), at 2000 m of alti-
tude, in a 110 year old villa where Winston Churchill
once stayed, amid the magnicent mountain landscape
of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and a walking dis-
tance from the largest glacier of the Alps. This isolated
site will help you to concentrate on the course while
giving you also the chance to enjoy the views and the
alpine ora.
Fee: CHF 490.-
Participants will receive a course certicate for 3 ETCS
credits.
To apply, send a single le (pdf or rtf) containing a
short motivation letter including a brief summary of
your research interest, a cv, and the name of your scien-
tic advisor to Caroline Betto-Colliard <Caroline.Betto-
Colliard@unil.ch >, with Cc to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
. Please put \Evolutionary workshop" in the subject.
Application deadline: 29 January 2017.
\tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch" <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >
Venice EvoDevo Sep18-21
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biology
Conceptual and Methodological Foundations5th Edition: Process Thinking for Evo-Devo
Venice, September 18th-21st 2017
Organizers: Alessandro Minelli, Gerd B. M uller and
Giuseppe Fusco School director: Johannes Jaeger
School sponsors: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti (IVSLA), Venice and Konrad Lorenz Institute for
Evolution and Cognition Research (KLI), Vienna.
Location: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti,
Palazzo Franchetti, Venice
Taching panel: Johannes Jaeger (School Director, KLI
Klosterneuburg, Austria), Scott Gilbert (Swarthmore
College, Swarthmore, PA, U.S.A.), James DiFrisco (KLI
Klosterneuburg, Austria), Nick Monk (University of
Sheeld, U.K.), Berta Verd (KLI Klosterneuburg, Aus-
tria), Ron Jenner (Natural History Museum, London,
U.K.), Graham Budd (University of Uppsala, Sweden),
Stuart Kauman (Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle,
WA, U.S.A.)
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2017
For details, visit http://www.istitutoveneto.org/-
EDB2015/ Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biol-
ogy University of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-
35131 Padova Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax
+39.049.827.6230 e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it web-
page http://dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
Instructions158 EvolDir January 1, 2017
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.