E v o l D i r
January 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1292 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Conferences
Galveston Texas QuantGeneticsGenomics Feb16-22 . 2
Glasgow PopGroup46 Dec18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Innsbruck Austria AntEvolution Sep5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Irvine California BrainEvolution Jan11-12 . . . . . . . . . . 4
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 ColourPolymorphisms . 5
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Epigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 ExperimentalEvolGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 GenomicIslands . . . . . . . 7
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . 8
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 LearningEvolution . . . . .8
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 MolEvolInnovations . . . 9
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 MultigeneFamilyEvol . . 9
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 NonGeneticInheritance 10
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Paleobiology . . . . . . . . . 10
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 PhenotypicPlasticity . 11
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 RapidEvol . . . . . . . . . . . 11Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 RecentHumanEvolution
12
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Registration . . . . . . . . . .12
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Segregation . . . . . . . . . . 12
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 Symbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 TradeOs . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Lisbon EvolutionaryPatterns May27-29 CallAbstracts
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Montpellier MathCompEvolutionaryBiol May27-31 15
Oeiras Portugal Evolution Dec21 Deadline . . . . . . . . .16
Paris MicrobialEvolution Oct2-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Portugal OligochaeteTaxonomy Apr22-25 . . . . . . . . . .17
PrincetonU OriginOfLife Jan21-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
UCalifornia Berkeley EvolutionaryBiology TheoryOf-
Computing Jan13-May16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
UColorado Denver ProteinEvolution Feb7-9 2 . . . . . 19
UMichigan Macroevolution FossilsPhylogenies . . . . . 19
Galveston Texas
QuantGeneticsGenomics Feb16-22
Gordon Research Conference in Quantitative Genetics
and Genomics, Hotel Galvez, Galveston, TX February
17-22, 2013
Many diseases that aect humans, animals, and plants
are so-called complex traits, in that variation in sus-
ceptibility between individuals is aected by multiple
genetic and environmental factors. Thus, strategies to
understand and utilize the genetic basis and genetic
architecture of these traits rely on the application of
quantitative genetics. Traditionally built upon statis-
tical abstractions of genetic eects, the eld of quanti-
tative genetics is now rapidly advancing by making use
of the extensive and rapid developments in genetic and
genomic technologies to reveal explicit links between
genes and complex phenotypes. The eld of quanti-
tative genetics, therefore, serves as a focal point for
bringing together many existing and emerging areasof genetics, genomics, physiology, epidemiology, statis-
tics, and computational biology. The strength and aim
of the Gordon Research Conference on \Quantitative
Genetics & Genomics" is that it brings leaders in the
elds of human genetics, plant and animal breeding
and genetics, and evolutionary genetics together in a
unique format that promotes an open exchange of ideas
and presentation of unpublished results on cutting edge
developments in the eld. In 2013, the Gordon Re-
search CONFERENCE will be preceded by a Gordon
Research SEMINAR, which will allow an unparalleled
opportunity for up and coming students and postdoc-
toral researchers to exchange ideas on the most cutting
edge science, gain experience presenting their work in
a high-prole setting, and interact with leaders in their
eld. The 2013 Conference and Seminar will focus on
many cutting-edge developments in the eld of quan-
titative genetics but with specic emphasis on the ge-
netics of complex disease, including whole genome and
next generation sequencing approaches to understand-
ing and exploiting genetic variation, to identify causal
genes and pathways, genome architecture and regula-
tion, systems genetics, host-pathogen interaction and
co-evolution, non-traditional forms of inheritance, andJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
statistical genetics and genomics.
Applications for the Gordon Research Conference must
be submitted by January 20, 2013.
********Gordon Research Seminar will be held Febru-
ary 16-17, 2013********
The Gordon Research Seminar is designed to provide a
stimulating venue for students and post-docs to discuss
cutting-edge science and critical background informa-
tion in the area of quantitative genetics and genomics.
It is an ideal venue for presenting your work and inter-
acting with peers and leaders in the eld. At the Gor-
don Research Seminar, we have space for 10 speakers
and a total of 50 participants who will present posters.
Speakers will be chosen from submitted abstracts. We
are encouraging individuals interested in speaking at
the GRS to submit their abstracts by December 8. The
formal deadline to submit an application to the confer-
ence is January 19, 2013.
We have some funds to cover registration and travel
expenses. Please apply early to eligible for these funds.
Check: http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?year=-
2013&program=quantgen for updates and upcoming
program details on the Gordon Research Conference
and http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?year=-
2013&program=grs quant for details on the Gordon
Research Seminar for graduate students and post-
doctoral fellows.
Jack Dekkers, Conference Chair Michel Georges, Con-
ference Vice Chair Suzanne McGaugh, Seminar Chair
James Koltes, Seminar Associate Chair
Suzanne McGaugh <suzanne.mcgaugh@duke.edu >
Glasgow PopGroup46 Dec18-21
Reminder: Final registration for the Population Ge-
netics Group meeting to be held in Glasgow Dec. 18-
21 is due on Dec. 6. Please also submit abstracts
for posters by this time; the talk schedule is nearly
full but there is still plenty of room for posters. A
draft programme and logistical details about the con-
ference can be found on the conference website: http:/-
/www.populationgeneticsgroup.org/. The programme
and book of abstracts can be found on the Programme
page.
The conference ends at noon on December 21st and we
are investigating whether there is interest in a post-conference excursion that afternoon. The University
has a eld station situated on stunning Loch Lomond,
combining freshwater and terrestrial, lowland and up-
land, and agricultural and natural habitats in close
proximity. The research facilities were renovated in
2006 and the teaching facilities are currently under ren-
ovation. The research facilities include ume tanks,
controlled environment rooms and facilities for keeping
sh, amphibians and birds, as well as nest boxes situ-
ated in several woodland areas. This is an ideal centre
for research and we welcome collaborative projects from
outside users. We will also welcome eld courses, after
completion of the new phase in 2014.
http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/bahcm/-
researchfacilitiesgroups/scene/ If you are interested in
a eld trip to Loch Lomond, please ll out the form
that you can nd at the bottom of the Social Events
page on the website.
For arrival information, please check the transporta-
tion information, which you can nd under Travel,
including a link to a campus map. On Decem-
ber 18, the opening reception (18:00-23:00) will be
held at the Jurys Inn in Central Glasgow (http://-
glasgowhotels.jurysinns.com/), with a nger food buf-
fet available between 19:00-21:00. This will be preceded
by an information session by the NERC Biomolecular
Analysis Facility (NBAF), which all are welcome to at-
tend (17:00). Registration will be available from 16:00-
23:00 at the Jurys Inn. The conference will be held
at the University of Glasgow, Gilmore hill campus (i.e.
the main campus in the west end). Registration will be
open from 8:30 am in the Wolfson Medical School build-
ing and the plenary lectures will start at 9:00 am, in the
Boyd Orr Building, Lecture theatre 2. Contributed ses-
sions will start at 10:30 am each day (following a coee
break), in the Wolfson Medical School Building. The
conference will end at 1 2:00 on December 21st, with a
buet lunch available until 13:30.
The conference dinner will have a set menu (please
see the Social Events page to see the full menu); one
for those who indicated vegetarian or no sh on the
registration page and one for those who didn't indi-
cate restrictions. Special menus will be available for
those who indicated food allergies. The non vege-
tarian option will be cullen skink (smoked haddock
chowder{a Scottish classic), followed by duck; if you
would prefer the vegetarian meal instead, please email
pgg@populationgeneticsgroup.org by Dec. 6.
Details about posters and oral presentations can be
found on the Talks and Posters page.
We have arranged for wireless to be included with your
room if staying at the Jurys Inn; please ask at the desk4 EvolDir January 1, 2013
for a password (make sure to tell them you are part
of the conference). Although we will be setting up a
Glasgow guest access password for wireless access for
the conference at the University, we would recommend
that you use EduRoam, if possible. It is less restrictive
than the Glasgow University system, which uses a proxy
that can cause diculties. You should be able to obtain
a username and password from your home institution,
before attempting to access wireless at Glasgow.
If you are sharing accommodation at the Jurys Inn (see
the Accommodation page), the rst person to arrive
should have a credit card available to swipe but you
can pay separately on check-out so that each person
can receive their own receipt.
We hope to see you soon in Glasgow!!
Barbara Mable Anna Muir Jame Buckley
barbara.mable@glasgow.ac.uk
Innsbruck Austria AntEvolution
Sep5-8
Dear evoldir member,
The 5th Central European Workshop of Myrmecology
(CEWM) will be held in Innsbruck, Austria, in autumn
2013 - click here <http://cewm2013.org/ >for the
meeting's website and here <http://cewm2013.org/-
nl.php >for subscribing to our newsletter!
The most important CEWM facts in a nutshell:
- Scope: All elds of ant research, including social evo-
lution, behaviour, cognition and learning, population
biology, systematics and phylogeny, biogeography and
faunistics, ecology, and conservation biology. The tech-
niques presented will range from molecular genetics and
genomics to microscopy and ecological-niche modeling
and from behavioural to chemical assays.
- Participants: people and topics will be warmly wel-
come from all over Europe - and beyond!
- Timeline: 5-8 September 2013.
- Venue: University of Innsbruck, Technikerstr. 25,
6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
- Registration fees: To be announced early 2013; we
are currently completing a fundraising campaign in or-
der to oer reduced fees comparable to the fees of the
4th CEWM in Cluj, Romania.- Important dates: Click here <http://cewm2013.org/-
08-dates.php >.
Please forward this email to others who you think are
interested.
Looking forward to seeing you in Innsbruck,
Warmest, Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner, Wolfgang Arthofer,
Florian M. Steiner
P.S. We apologise if you receive multiple copies of this
posting.
5th CEWM - Central European Workshop of Myrme-
cology
Organising Committee
Molecular Ecology Group, University of Innsbruck
Technikerstr. 25, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria Phone
+43 (0) 512 507 51701 Fax +43 (0) 512 507
51799 http://www.cewm2013.org CEWM 2013
<oce@cewm2013.org >
Irvine California BrainEvolution
Jan11-12
January 11-12, 2013 In the Light of Evolution VII: The
Human Mental Machinery Organizers: Camilo J. Cela-
Conde, Raul Gutierrez Lombardo, John C. Avise and
Francisco J. Ayala Beckman Center of the National
Academies, Irvine, CA Co-sponsored by the Centro de
Estudios Filosocos Politicos y Sociales Vicente Lom-
bardo Toledano
Scholars consider a comment in Charles Darwin's Note-
book C to be one of his rst insights into human nature.
As Darwin noted, our mental machinery makes us dif-
ferent. For instance, it allows us to ask about ourselves,
about what a human is. It allows us to question what
we are and the meaning of the way we are. One thing we
have discovered is that humans possess certain unique
mental traits. Ethic and aesthetic values are among
them, and they constitute an essential part of what we
call the human condition. This Colloquium brings to-
gether leading scientists who have worked on several
aspects of human morals and aesthetics considered as
mental traits, their evolution, and their relationship to
related behaviors in other primates.
http://www.nasonline.org/programs/-
sackler-colloquia/upcoming-colloquia/ILE-
Human Mental Machinery.html Registration Fee:January 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
$150.00
Reduced Registration Fee for Graduate Students and
Postdocs: $100.00
Registration is limited and will be accepted online only
when the registration fee is included and in the order in
which it is received. Online registration is available for
single and multiple registrations (i.e. work group) with
MasterCard and Visa and check. The registration fee
includes breakfast and lunch on Friday and Saturday
and transportation from the Marriott Newport Beach
Hotel to the Beckman Center.
The Welcome Dinner on Thursday and the Dinner on
Friday night are optional and extra fees apply.
Register at <http://www.cvent.com/d/vcqdzl/4W >
Lodging and Transportation
A block of rooms has been reserved at the Marriott
Newport Beach Hotel and Spa at the discounted rate
of $125, single or double occupancy. (The rate is based
on the current federal per diem rate, which is subject
to change.) You can make a room reservation during
the online registration process. After December 17th,
we cannot guarantee that the discounted rate or a room
will be available.
Transportation is provided once daily roundtrip from
the hotel to the Beckman Center. See agenda for times.
For more information, contact Susan Marty
<SMarty@nas.edu >.
\Francisco J. Ayala" <fjayala@uci.edu >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Coevolution
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for the XIV Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), to
be held in Lisbon from the 19-24 of August 2013.
We are happy to announce the symposium:
Genetics and genomics of host-'parasite coevolution
Invited speaker: Francis Jiggins (http://-
www.gen.cam.ac.uk/research/Jiggins/)
Description: Host'-parasite coevolution often leads to
fast evolutionary changes. It thus represents an ideal
model for studying processes of rapid adaptation. Keyto these studies is an understanding of the underlying
genetics and genomics, because they help us identify
the specic traits under selection and also the type of
selective processes involved. Our symposium focuses
on current advances in this eld, taking advantage of
recent innovations in high throughput sequencing tech-
nology.
Organisers: Joachim Kurtz (http://ieb.uni-
muenster.de/animalevolecol) Hinrich Schulenburg
(http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/)
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (https://eseb2013.com/).
We look forward to hearing from you, and hope to see
you in Lisbon next year!
Joachim Kurtz and Hinrich Schulenburg
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity, Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueer-
str. 1, 48149 Muenster, Germany
Phone (secretary): + 49 251 83 21027 Phone (direct):
+ 49 251 83 24661 Fax: + 49 251 83 24668
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de http://ieb.uni-
muenster.de/animalevolecol Joachim Kurtz
<joachim.Kurtz@uni-muenster.de >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
ColourPolymorphisms
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for the XIV Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), to
be held in Lisbon from the 19-24 of August 2013. We
are happy to announce the symposium:
*The evolution and maintenance of heritable colour
polymorphisms: from ecology to genomes*
Invited speakers:
Rosemary G. Gillespie <http://nature.berkeley.edu/-
%7Egillespie/Home.html >
Jon Slate <http://www.jon-slate.sta.shef.ac.uk/ >
Details of the symposium are below, and we will be ac-
cepting abstract submissions until the 28th February
2013.6 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Description:
Polymorphisms are found in a wide range of taxa but
the why and how genetic polymorphisms persist over
time remains a classic problem in biology. In humans
for example, 5-15% of the examined genes are poly-
morphic, and in many cases alternative alleles can pro-
foundly alter tness. The relatively simple genetic basis
of many colour polymorphisms (one or a few loci) makes
them well-suited to study evolutionary processes, even
in non-model organisms. This is part of the reason
why colour polymorphic systems have become popular
when studying the early stages of speciation and mech-
anisms facilitating or constraining reproductive isola-
tion. <#ENREF 2>
In the past, work on heritable colour polymorphisms
has concentrated on the ecology and morph-frequency
dierences between populations and generations using
the framework of classical population genetics. In this
sense, studies of heritable colour polymorphisms were
used as counterparts to classical *Drosophila* studies,
in which marker phenotypes have been used to study
genetic dynamics in laboratory evolution assays. Tem-
poral and spatial dierences in morph frequencies were
then attributed to the action of well-recognized evolu-
tionary forces such as genetic drift, natural selection
and sexual selection.
The eld on polymorphism research is currently pro-
gressing rapidly because of advances in genomic tech-
nologies, especially high-throughput DNA sequencing.
We have now become capable of scanning large parts of
the genome at a cost that evolutionary biologists work-
ing on wild populations can aord. The application of
these genomic tools to ecological model species means
that we can start addressing some of the questions that
have puzzled ecological geneticists for decades such as:
How many genes are involved in adaptation? What
types of genetic variation are responsible for adapta-
tion? Does adaptation utilize standing genetic varia-
tion or does it require new mutations to arise following
an environmental change?
This symposium seeks to provide a platform for scien-
tists that are working towards the integration of ecol-
ogy and genomics in the study of colour polymorphic
systems.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (https://eseb2013.com/).
We look forward to hearing from you, and hope to see
you in Lisbon next year!
Organizers: Maren Wellenreuther <http:/-
/www4.lu.se/meel/people/postdocs/maren-wellenreuther >and Bengt Hansson <http://-
www.zoo.ekol.lu.se/molekol/medarbetare/bengt.html
>, Lund University, Sweden
Maren.wellenreuther@biol.lu.se
*Maren Wellenreuther*
Marie Curie Postdoctoral Researcher Department of Bi-
ology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
*http://marenwellenreuther.com/index.html
http://www.lu.se/meel/people/postdocs/maren-
wellenreuther <http://www.lu.se/o.o.i.s/26164 >
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Epigenetics
Dear Colleagues,
As a part of the XIV Congress of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (Lisbon, 19-24 August 2013)
we are pleased to announce the symposium \EVOLU-
TIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF EPIGENETIC VARI-
ATION". To register and submit your abstract for
this symposium, please follow the instructions on the
congress website (https://eseb2013.com/). Deadline
for abstract submission is 28 February 2013.
Invited speakers: - Frank Johannes (University of
Groningen, Netherlands) http://www.johanneslab.org
- Carlos Herrera (Estaci on Biol ogica de Do~ nana,
Sevilla, Spain) http://ebd06.ebd.csic.es/ Organizers:
- Oliver Bossdorf (University of Bern, Switzerland) -
Koen Verhoeven (Netherlands Institute of Ecology, Wa-
geningen, Netherlands)
Description: Epigenetic mechanisms can have long-
lasting eects on phenotypes, but what role do they
play in evolution? Recent research provides evidence
that epigenetic mechanisms can create heritable trait
variation, and that epigenetic variation can be herita-
bly altered by the environment. Moreover, studies in
natural populations suggest an epigenetic role in adap-
tation. This symposium presents the current status of
the growing research eld of ecological and evolutionary
epigenetics.
We hope to see you in Lisbon!
Oliver Bossdorf (bossdorf@ips.unibe.ch) & Koen Ver-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
hoeven (k.verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl)
Dr. Koen Verhoeven Netherlands Institute of Ecol-
ogy (NIOO-KNAW) Dept. Terrestrial Ecology tel:
+31 (0)317 473624 email: k.verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl
web: www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/kverhoeven \Verho-
even, Koen" <K.Verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
ExperimentalEvolGenomics
Dear Colleagues
Registration for the ESEB Congress in Lisbon (19-
24 August 2013) is now open, and we are inviting
submissions of contributed talks and posters to two
symposia addressing the genomic basis of experimen-
tal evolution. The rst emphasizes detecting candidate
genes and molecular mechanisms of experimental evo-
lutionary changes, the second studying interactions be-
tween these genes to uncover the shape of tness land-
scapes. Register and submit your abstracts through the
congress website: https://www.eseb2013.com/ GE-
NOMICS AND EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION In-
vited speakers: Rees Kassen and Thomas Flatt Or-
ganisers: Tadeusz J. Kawecki and Michael G.Ritchie
This symposium will focus on the application of whole
genome resequencing and other high-throughput omics
techniques (RNAseq, metabolomics) to experimental
evolution, in a broad range of experimental systems.
It will facilitate the exchange of information about the
questions addressed, techniques adopted and result ob-
tained by dierent research groups, but also encourage
the spread of best practice concerning design and sta-
tistical approaches, which are being actively developed
in this emerging eld.
EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION ON EMPIRICAL
FITNESS LANDSCAPES Invited speakers: Tim
Cooper and Joachim Krug Organisers: J. Arjan G.M.
de Visser and Santiago F. Elena To arrive at a quan-
titative understanding of adaptation, we need to iden-
tify the factors that determine its dynamics and un-
derstand how they do so quantitatively. A prominent
recent development is to consider the structure of the
tness landscape and how this determines the outcome
of adaptation. Microbial experimental evolution con-
tributes to this development by exploring the structure
of real tness landscapes, either by constructing mu-
tants carrying combinations of observed benecial mu-
tations, or by studying the contingency of evolution onparticular genotypes and conditions. The aim of this
symposium is to highlight diverse examples of the em-
pirical study of tness landscapes using microbial ex-
perimental evolution and their contribution to quanti-
tative models of adaptation.
We are looking forward to see you in Lisbon.
Arjan de Visser, Mike Richie, Santiago Elena &
Tadeusz Kawecki
Tadeusz Kawecki <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
GenomicIslands
Dear Colleagues,
As a part of the XIV Congress of the European Soci-
ety for Evolutionary Biology, which will be held in Lis-
bon from the 19th to 24th August 2013, we are pleased
to announce a symposium on \Genomic Islands: their
role in adaptation and speciation". Details of the sym-
posium are below, and we will be accepting abstract
submissions until the 28th February 2013.
Genomic Islands: their role in adaptation and specia-
tion
Keynote Speakers: Jeery Feder (http://-
federlab.nd.edu/) Mark Kirkpatrick (http://-
www.sbs.utexas.edu/kirkpatrick lab/K/home.html)
Patrik Nosil (http://nosil-lab.group.shef.ac.uk/)
Summary: Genome-wide data oers a unique opportu-
nity to gain an insight into the genomic architecture
involved in the adaptive divergence found in hetero-
geneous environments which can lead to local adapta-
tion, reproductive isolation and ultimately speciation.
By considering a range of species and approaches, this
symposium will explore the interactions of diversify-
ing selection and homogenizing gene ow to identify
trends in genomic evolution which accompany adap-
tation and ecological speciation. The symposium will
focus on both theory and empirical data to assess the
importance (or otherwise) of genomic islands of diver-
gence.
We are particularly keen to cover the whole of this pro-
cess within the symposium, and so want to highlight
that the symposium doesn't just focus on speciation,
but also the genomic architecture of local adaptation.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress8 EvolDir January 1, 2013
website (https://eseb2013.com/).
We look forward to hearing from you, and hope to see
you in Lisbon next year!
Organising committee: Rui Faria, Sarah Helyar, Chris
Jiggins, Gary Carvalho, Arcadi Navarro, Carole Smadja
Kr kveja / Best regards
Sarah Helyar, Ph.D. Fagstj ori / Research Group Leader
Oryggi, umhver & err / Food Safety, Environment &
Genetics Beint / Direct: (+354) 422 5000 GSM / Mo-
bile: (+354) 858 5115
Mat s ohf. / Icelandic Food and Biotech R&D
V nlandslei 12, 113 Reykjav k - www.matis.is <http://-
www.matis.is/ >S mi / Phone: (+354) 422 5000 - Fax:
(+354) 422 5001
sarah.helyar@matis.is
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
HostParasite
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for XIV Congress of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology, to be held in Lis-
bon from the 19th to 24th August 2013. We are happy
to announce we will be accepting abstract submissions
until the 28 of February 2013, for the symposium:
ATTACK AND DEFENSE: EVOLUTIONARY AND
ECOLOGICAL CONSEQUENCES OF INDIVIDUAL
VARIATION
Invited speakers: Meghan Duy, Michigan State
(http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/directory/faculty/-
duymeg/default.asp) Marcel Salath e, CIDD, Penn
State (http://www.salathegroup.com/)
Description: Antagonistic interactions are widespread
in nature, most notably in the context of infectious
disease, where hosts and pathogens play out an on-
going and ever-escalating battle for survival. Under-
standing how genetic and environmental factors inu-
ence the spread of disease and the evolution of host
and pathogen traits is a topic that unies ecologists,
evolutionary biologists, and epidemiologists. Accurate
predictions about both the ecology and evolution of in-
fection are notoriously dicult, and an important con-
tributing factor is that individuals vary, often substan-
tially, in their responses to infection: genetic variation
for infection success and within host resistance and tol-erance are well described; environmental conditions of-
ten interact with genetics to produce variable, and un-
predictable, infection outcomes; males and females fre-
quently show distinct responses to infection, with im-
plications for both the spread and evolution of disease;
individual variation in host behaviour and contact net-
works repeatedly result in disease outbreaks that would
not be predicted from the average behaviour of the
population. The current challenge lies in incorporat-
ing empirically observed variation into theoretical mod-
els dealing with the ecology and evolution of disease,
and to go further, and link these predictions to disease
spread and evolution in the wild. With this synthesis
in mind, this symposium will bring together theoretical
and empirical approaches across a broad range of bi-
ological systems, to embrace individual level variation
in host-pathogen interactions, and its population-level
consequences. We are especially excited about work
linking both theoretical and experimental approaches
in disease evolution, and those that extend laboratory
studies of infection to disease spread and evolution in
natural populations.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (https://eseb2013.com/). We hope to see you
there!
Organizers: Anna-Liisa Laine, University of Helsinki
Pedro Vale, Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolu-
tion, University of Edinburgh.
Anna-Liisa Laine <anna-liisa.laine@helsinki. >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
LearningEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for XIV Congress of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology, to be held in Lis-
bon from the 19th to 24th August 2013. We are happy
to announce we will be accepting abstract submissions
until the 28 of February 2013, for the symposium *Ac-
tively learning evolution: methods and resources.*
* *
Invited speaker:
*Tom Meagher, *University of St Andrews, UK, and
Chair SSE Education & Outreach Committee.
http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/prole/trm3 Sympo-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
sium description:
It has been shown that the best way of learning science
is doing science.The symposium \*Actively learning
evolution: methods and resources", *integrated in the
XIV Congress of the European Society for Evolution-
ary Biology,aims to explore and discuss methods and
resources available to promote a more eective learn-
ing of evolution that engage students through enquiry
and realistic scientic investigations. If you have been
working on/with such methods we invite you to sub-
mit an abstract for a discussion round in the format of
hands-on activities that allows participants to explore
the presented resources. Priority will be given to those
resources that can be explored at dierent depths and
used to teach evolution in both high schools and univer-
sity grades. To register and submit your abstract for
this symposium, please follow the instructions on the
congress website ( https://eseb2013.com/). We hope
to see you there!
Organizers: Alexandra Isabel S a Pinto, Centro de In-
vestiga c~ ao em Biodiversidade e Recursos Gen eticos,
University of Porto (CIBIO.UP).
Rita Campos, CIBIO.UP
Kristin Jenkins, Education and Outreach Program, Na-
tional Evolutionary Synthesis Center
xanasapinto@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
MolEvolInnovations
We are pleased to invite you to the sympo-
sium \*MOLECULAR EVOLUTIONARY INNOVA-
TIONS*" that will be held at the XIV congress of the
European Society of Evolutionary Biology 2013 from 19
to 24 August in Lisbon, Portugal, and would be hon-
ored to receive your abstract submission.
* * *Symposium summary:*
Evolutionary innovations, including evolution of new
functions, bear the hallmarks of genome plasticity.
The comparison of ever-increasing number of sequenced
genomes in dierent species has expanded our ability to
discover molecular evolutionary novelties, to study their
origin, their dynamics and long-term fates in genomes.
In this symposium we will address the evolution of these
events, focusing in particular in studies that discov-
ered and traced them down (from whole genome du-plications to single gene duplications), mechanisms in-
volved in their advent (exon shuing, gene fusion, or
ssion, domestication of transposable elements, exap-
tion of coding or noncoding sequences and lateral gene
transfer...), the dynamics and fate of novelties (con-
tribution to the neofunctionalization or subfunctional-
ization events, gene repertoires preferentially retained,
patterns of gene family expansion, mode of evolution
they followed for their maintenance), as well as the tools
allowing their retrieval and/or the comparison of such
genes at the genomic level. We will also put emphasis
on those detailing changes at the molecular and cellular
levels, up to those showing behavioural impact.
Invited speakers:
*Vaishali Katju* http://biology.unm.edu/katju/-
Katju LabWebsite/Home.html *C edric Feschotte*
http://www.bioscience.utah.edu/faculty/molecular-
biology-faculty/feschotte/index.php We would be
extremely grateful if you could help us to convey this
call beyond the evoldir community.
With our best regards,
Fr ed eric Brunet (frederic.brunet@ens-lyon.fr) Rita
Ponce (arponce@fc.ul.pt)
More information and registration at: *http://-
www.eseb2013.com* DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT
SUBMISSION: *February 28th 2013*
anaritaponce@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
MultigeneFamilyEvol
Dear Colleagues,
As a part of the XIV Congress of the European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology, taking place in Lisbon
19-24 August 2013, we are pleased to announce a sym-
posium on * MULTIGENE FAMILY EVOLUTION IN
THE POST-GENOMIC ERA: Towards a population
genomic approach to MHC evolution *. Please see be-
low for further details. Abstract submissions will be
accepted until 28th of February 2013.
Keynote Speakers: *JIM KAUFMAN*
(http://www.immunology.cam.ac.uk/directory/-
prole.php?jfk31)
*JACEK RADWAN* (http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/-
molecol/index.php?option=com content&view=-10 EvolDir January 1, 2013
article&id=51&Itemid=32)
Description: Multigene families, like the MHC, encode
central components in pathways involved in individual
tness and are key to important adaptations. Eluci-
dating the molecular processes involved in their evolu-
tion is an important issue to further our understanding
of the genetic basis of biological diversication. With
this symposium we aim at bringing together researchers
studying the functional genomics, evolutionary ecology
and population genomics of MHC to discuss the most
recent developments in each of the elds and develop
new ideas and future research directions that integrate
the dierent branches of MHC evolution in particu-
lar and multigene family evolution in general. Contri-
butions presenting an integrative approach or ndings
with signicant relevance to such will be given prior-
ity. We explicitly encourage also submissions presenting
integrative research on multigene families other than
MHC.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (https://eseb2013.com/).
We hope to see you in Lisbon! Reto Burri & Robert
Ekblom
RETO BURRI
Department of Evolutionary Biology Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre Uppsala University
Norbyv agen 18D SE-75236 Uppsala Sweden
reto.burri@ebc.uu.se +46 (0)18-471 42 63 (oce) +46
(0)70-534 00 71 (mobile)
reto.burri@ebc.uu.se
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
NonGeneticInheritance
Dear colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to submit abstracts for posters
and talks for the NON GENETIC INHERITANCE ses-
sion organized at ESEB 2013 (19th to the 24 ^th of Au-
gust in Lisbon, Portugal).
https://www.eseb2013.com/ Registration is now
opened and the deadline for abstract submission is
28^th of February 2012.
Looking forward to receive your abstracts.Best wishes from the organizers of the NGI session
Benoit Pujol < http://www.edb.ups-tlse.fr/-
Pujol-Benoit.html >and Katie Stopher <http:/-
/wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/jpemberton/-
KatieStopher2.html >
More details on the session here:
Invited speakers: Kevin Laland <http://lalandlab.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ >and Etienne Danchin <http://-
www.edanchin.fr/spip.php?article22 >
Description: Evidence is accruing that epigenetic, de-
velopmental, parental, ecological and cultural inheri-
tance mechanisms have a major impact on the evolution
of phenotypic diversity. The aim of this symposium is
to highlight novel results and synthesize our knowledge
on the contribution of non-genetic inheritance to evolu-
tionary processes. We will also explore the need for an
extended theory of evolution where genes are not the
only inheritance system.
Benoit PUJOL <benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Paleobiology
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to invite you to send abstracts to our
symposium on \Unifying paleobiological and compara-
tive perspectives on character evolution" for the 14th
ESEB congress in Lisbon taking place 19-24th of Au-
gust 2013.
Organizers: Lee Hsiang Liow & Thomas F. Hansen.
University of Oslo, Department of Biology, CEES.
Emails: l.h.liow@bio.uio.no &
thomas.hansen@bio.uio.no
Invited speakers: Gene Hunt and Folmer Bokma.
Summary: It is no longer debated that the fossil record
is necessary to inform us about the history of life, yet
the integration of data and perspectives using fossils
and comparative data in understanding evolution is
far from mature. This symposium gathers researchers
straddling the realms of the extinct and the extant
to explore how we can better understand evolutionary
processes especially on time scales common to palaeo-
biological and phylogenetic comparative studies, using
character evolution as a focal point.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
Link: https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia Deadline
for submission 28 February 2013.
Abstracts will be selected by the organizers for either
oral or poster presentation. When submitting your ab-
stract please state your preference for talk or poster.
Talks will be assigned time slots of 15 minutes and se-
lected based on relevance for the symposium. Sincerely,
Lee Hsiang & Thomas
Thomas F Hansen <t.f.hansen@bio.uio.no >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
PhenotypicPlasticity
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for the XIV Congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology, to be
held in Lisbon (Portugal), August 19-24 2013: https:/-
/www.eseb2013.com/ We are happy to announce
that we will be accepting abstract submissions un-
til February 28th 2013, for the symposium \PHENO-
TYPIC PLASTICITY: MECHANISMS, ECOLOGY,
AND EVOLUTION"
INVITED SPEAKERS: * Jacintha Ellers (Vrije Uni-
versiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands) * Fred Nijhout
(Duke University, USA) * Anthony Zera (University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, USA)
ORGANIZERS: * Patricia Gibert (Universit e Lyon1,
France) * Patr cia Beldade Instituto Gulbenkian de
Ciencia, Portugal)
DESCRIPTION: Phenotypic plasticity refers to the
ability of a genotype to produce dierent phenotypes
in dierent environments. Its study integrates multi-
ple disciplines and analyses at all levels of biological
organization; from the molecular regulation of changes
in organismal development, to variation in phenotypes
and tness in natural populations. The symposium wel-
comes work searching to understand how changes in
external environment aect (or not) phenotype, how
alternative phenotype perform in distinct environmen-
tal conditions, and how that weighs into account for the
evolution of plasticity.
Patricia Gibert (patricia.gibert@univ-lyon1.fr) Patr cia
Beldade (pbeldade@igc.gulbenkian.pt)
pbeldade@igc.gulbenkian.ptLisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
RapidEvol
Dear Colleagues:
Registration is now open for XIV Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (https://-
www.eseb2013.com), to be held in Lisbon from the 19th
to 24th August 2013. We would like to invite abstract
submissions for oral and poster presentations until the
28 of February 2013,for the symposium entitled:
RAPID EVOLUTION AND POPULATION GENET-
ICS
Description: The traditional view is that evolution is
too slow to be aected by ecological dynamics. A grow-
ing body of evidence suggests that this assumption is
actually unwarranted and ecological and evolutionary
processes can occur on the same time scale. On the
other hand, evolutionary eects, changes in trait mean
and variance of phenotypes, have largely been ignored
in the study of ecological processes. With this pro-
posed symposium, our goal is to promote the integra-
tion of evolutionary biology and ecology by exploring
how rapid evolution and population and community dy-
namics interact. Furthermore, we believe that the in-
tegration of rapid, contemporary evolution into studies
of population genetics is very important but has largely
been ignored. With this proposed symposium, we hope
to start a rapid growing discussion on how to combine
population genetics and rapid evolution.
Invited speakers: Nelson G. Hairston, Cornell Univer-
sity Hildegard Uecker & Joachim Hermisson, University
of Vienna Richard Neher, Max-Planck Institute for De-
velopmental Biology
Organizer: Teppo Hiltunen, University of Helsinki
(http://teppo-hiltunen.blogspot.) Lutz Becks, Max-
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology (http://-
www.evolbio.mpg.de/comdyn)
We look forward to hearing from you, and hope to see
you in Lisbon.
Lutz and Teppo
Lutz Becks <lbecks@evolbio.mpg.de >12 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
RecentHumanEvolution
Dear colleagues,
Registration for the *ESEB Congress in Lisbon (19-24
August 2013)* is now open, and we are inviting submis-
sions of contributed talks and posters to a symposium
addressing advances in quantitative approaches to re-
cent evolutionary change in humans
Register and submit your abstracts through the
congress website: https://www.eseb2013.com/
*DEAD LINE for submission is February 28th,
2012!!!*
*ADVANCES IN QUANTITATIVE APPROACHES
TO RECENT EVOLUTIONARY CHANGE IN HU-
MANS *
Description: Applying a rigorous evolutionary frame-
work to understand human biology and behaviour
present numerous challenges. However, many recent
advances have brought this eld to a point where reso-
lution of past diculties may be achieved. The goal of
this symposium is to provide a diverse overview of the
state-of-the-art in quantitative approaches to investi-
gate human evolution at dierent levels of biological or-
ganisation (from genes or genomes to societies) . While
we expect most contributions to focus on selective evo-
lutionary processes, we also very much welcome works
assessing the importance of other processes in human
evolution (e.g. drift). We decided to limit the scope of
this symposium to recent evolutionary change (specif-
ically from from the end of Pleistocene - 10,000 years
ago - to present day). This restriction is aimed at coun-
terbalancing the view predominant in some elds that
recent changes are of little consequence for understand-
ing human biology. Indeed, not only do we disagree, we
think that this focus may more reect methodological
limitation than genuine scientic import.
Invited speaker: Stephen Stearns (Yale), Mark Thomas
(UC London) and Jean-Baptiste Michel (Harvard).
Organisers: Alexandre Courtiol (Berlin) https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/alexandrecourtiol/home
Ian Rickard (Durham) http://www.dur.ac.uk/-
anthropology/research/earg/earg members/-
earg proles/?mode=sta&id=10886 We look forward
to hearing from you, and hope to see you in warm
Lisbon next year! Merry Xmas.alexandre.courtiol@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Registration
ESEB 2013 - REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT
SUBMISSION
www.eseb2013.com Registration and abstract submis-
sion for the 14th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology, Lisbon, Portugal, 19-24 August
2013 is now open.
You are invited to submit your contribution to one of
29 topical symposia and 4 wide scope sessions. The
deadline for the abstract submission is 28 of February
2013.
We recommend that you register and book your ac-
commodation as soon as possible. This is because the
number of attendants is limited to 1300 and Lisbon is
a popular destination during August.
Online registration, online abstract submission and ac-
commodation booking are three dierent steps that can
be done at dierent times.
All relevant information can be found online.
Looking forward to seeing you in Lisbon!
Follow us on twitter @eseb2013
Oct avio S. Paulo Assistant Professor Computational
Biology and Population Genomics Group Centro de
Biologia Ambiental Departamento de Biologia Animal
Faculdade de Ci^ encias da Universidade de Lisboa P-
1749-016 Lisboa Portugal
Tel: 00 351 217500614 direct Tel: 00 351 217500000
ext22359 Fax: 00 351 217500028 email: oc-
tavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt skype: octaviopaulocobiggroup
url: http://webpages.fc.ul.pt/ ~ ofpaulo/ url: http://-
cobig2.fc.ul.pt/ url: http://bbc.fc.ul.pt/ Octavio Paulo
<octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Segregation
ESEB Symposium on 'Early germ-soma segregation'January 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
Dear Colleagues:
We would like to invite you to attend and contribute
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium \Evolutionary con-
sequences of an early germ-soma segregation", to take
place at the 14th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in Lisbon, Portugal, 19
- 24 August 2013.
Invited Speakers: Norman Arnheim (University of
Southern California, USA) 'Germline selection and the
paternal-age eect in humans.'
Andrew Bourke (University of East Anglia, UK) 'Early
germline segregation and social group transformation'
Organisers Duur K. Aanen (Wageningen University)
Rick Michod (University of Arizona)
Summary: It has been 25 years since Leo Buss rst
proposed that an early segregation of a germ line from
the rest of the body is an adaptation to limit the scope
for selsh cell lineages. A number of recent discoveries
make it timely to reevaluate this hypothesis. This sym-
posium explores the evolutionary stability of multicel-
lularity in organisms with and without an early germ-
line sequestration, to discuss the relative importance of
this characteristic for conict resolution, in multicellu-
lar growth and, more generally, in other major transi-
tions such as the transition to eusociality.
Description Most animals segregate, early in develop-
ment, a small number of germ cells that are destined to
give rise to reproductive cells, from somatic cells. Only
a few cell divisions separate the germ cell from the ga-
mete stage and germ-cell division is strictly regulated.
It has been nearly 25 years since Leo Buss proposed that
these individual-level adaptations reduce the scope for
within-individual selection, at which level selection of-
ten will be deleterious for individual tness. The early
germ-soma segregation thus prevents conict between
selection at the level of the individual and selection
at the level of the cell. There is much empirical sup-
port for this hypothesis. However, it has been argued
that the regular single-cell bottleneck observed in most
life cycles in combination with a low mutation rate is
sucient to limit intra-individual genetic variation re-
quired for among-cell selection. Furthermore, recently
some cases have been identied that show that the
germ-soma segregation does not provide perfect pro-
tection against lower-level selection. First, contagious
cancers, transmitted horizontally from one individual
to another, circumvent the germ line. Second, recently
a mechanism has been discovered by which inherited
diseases, caused by de novo mutations in the father's
germ line, are positively selected. Normally, male germ
cells divide asymmetrically, with one daughter cell be-coming the new germ cell, and the other giving rise to
multiple gametes. However, some mutations increase
the frequency of symmetrical division of the germ cells,
thus increasing the number of germ cells with this mu-
tation. This explains an observation, already made in
the early 1900's, that the incidence of some inherited
diseases increases with the age of the father. On the
occasion of these new discoveries, this symposium will
discuss the importance of germ-soma dierentiation for
resolution of the potential conict between the levels of
selection in a multicellular individual. This symposium
will bring together students working on the evolution of
multicellularity and conict resolution, both in organ-
isms with and organisms without an early germ-soma
dierentiation, such as fungi. It will discuss the impor-
tance of an early germ-soma dierentiation for conict
resolution relative to other stabilising factors, especially
high among-cell genetic relatedness, seen in most mul-
ticellular organisms.
\Aanen, Duur" <duur.aanen@wur.nl >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
Symbiosis
Conference: ESEB2013.Lisbon, Aug19-
24.SYMBIOTIC INTERACTIONS
Dear Colleagues:
Registration is now open for XIV Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (https://-
www.eseb2013.com), to be held in Lisbon from the 19th
to 24th August 2013. We would like to invite abstract
submissions for oral and poster presentations until the
28 of February 2013,for the symposium entitled:
EVOLUTION OF SYMBIOTIC INTERACTIONS IN
COMMUNITIES: NOVEL APPROACHES.
Description: Biological interactions within com-
munities shape the evolution of individual species.
These relationships (obligate/facultative, bene-
cial/detrimental) force the emergence of innovative
traits. The most exciting research on these topics
now combines comparative ?omics? approaches with
concepts from evolutionary and behavioural ecology.
The symposium will highlight recent progress in this
interdisciplinary eld and will discuss the interplay
between communities and evolutionary biology: how
do species interactions within a community aect
evolution?14 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Invited speakers: Christoph Vorburger, ETH, Zurich
Jacobus J. Boomsma, University of Copenhagen, Den-
mark
For submission of abstracts follow the instructions on
the website at https://www.eseb2013.com Organis-
ers: Kayla King, Kayla King, PhD. University of Liv-
erpool, Institute of Integrative Biology, UK. Mario
X. Ruiz-Gonz alez, Institute of Molecular and Cellu-
lar Biology of Plants (C.S.I.C. - U.P.V.), Valencia,
Spain. J er^ ome Orivel, CNRS, UMR Ecologie des For^ ets
de Guyane. Justyna Wolinska, Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit at M unchen, Germany.
We hope to meet you there!
Mario X. Ruiz-Gonz alez <maruigon@upvnet.up.es >
{
Mario X. Ruiz-Gonz alez, Ph.D., M.Sc. Department of
Abiotic Stress, Lab 1.07 Institute of Molecular and Cel-
lular Biology of Plants - I.B.M.C.P. (C.S.I.C. - U.P.V.)
Integrative Systems Biology Group C/ Ingeniero Fausto
Elio s/n. 46022 Valencia, Spain
Phone: +34 963879934 Fax: +34 963877859 e-mail:
maruigon@upvnet.upv.es
\Mario X. Ruiz-Gonz alez"
<maruigon@upvnet.upv.es >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
TradeOs
ESEB Symposium on Mechanisms of TRADE-OFFs
Dear Colleagues:
We would like to invite you to attend and contribute
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium \Mechanisms of
Trade-os", to take place at the 14th Congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in
Lisbon, Portugal, 19 - 24 August 2013.
Invited Speakers: *Stephen C. Stearns (Yale Univer-
sity)
*Joost Keurentjes (Wageningen University)
Organizers: *Bas Zwaan (Wageningen University)
*Thomas Flatt (University of Lausanne)
Description:
Trade-os are of major importance in evolutionary the-
ory, in particular in life history theory, since they arethought to impose constraints upon the response to se-
lection: trade-os occur when an evolutionary change
in a trait that increases tness is coupled to an evolu-
tionary change in another trait that decreases tness.
Because organisms are often restricted in terms of re-
source acquisition, one of the major physiological ex-
planations for the existence of trade-os is dierential
resource allocation between competing functions/traits.
Recently, however, molecular data have challenged the
validity of this view, even though both views may be
compatible with each other. Unfortunately, up-to-date,
trade-os have either mostly been approached from
a purely phenotypic perspective without much atten-
tion to the underlying physiological and genetic mecha-
nisms, or conclusions about trade-os have been drawn
from molecular studies without sucient consideration
of the functional/organismal phenotype. In this sym-
posium we aim to bridge these views by linking our cur-
rent knowledge of the molecular and physiological path-
ways with what has been learned about quantitative
genetic and phenotypic correlations among traits. Un-
derstanding the mechanisms underlying trade-os and
their evolutionary consequences will require an integra-
tive approach, and it is the major aim of our symposium
to help foster such an integration.
Website:
https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia <
https://www.ESEB2013.com/symposia >
The site for registration for the ESEB meeting and for
abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
www.eseb2013.com Deadline for abstract submission:
28 February 2013.
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organiz-
ers and will be selected for either oral or poster pre-
sentation in late February. When submitting your ab-
stract please state your preference (talk, poster) during
the submission process. Talks in the symposium will
be 15 minutes long, with 2 minutes for discussion.
We are looking forward to seeing you in Lisbon!
Bas and Thomas
Bas Zwaan
Laboratory of Genetics Plant Research Group Wa-
geningen University and Research Centre Droeven-
daalsesteeg 1 6708 PB Wageningen The Netherlands
E-mail: bas.zwaan@wur.nl
Thomas Flatt
Department of Ecology and Evolution University of
Lausanne UNIL Sorge Le Biophore CH-1015 Lausanne
SwitzerlandJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Book: Mechanisms of Life History Evolution
http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/-
9780199568772.do att.thomas@gmail.com
Lisbon EvolutionaryPatterns
May27-29 CallAbstracts 2
2ND CALL FOR ABSTRACTS: INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE ON EVOLUTIONARY PATTERNS
Horizontal and Vertical Transmission and Micro- and
Macroevolutionary Patterns of Biological and Sociocul-
tural Evolution
May 27-29th, 2013 jCalouste Gulbenkian Foundation,
Lisbon, Portugal
Website: http://evolutionarypatterns.fc.ul.pt ABOUT
THE CONFERENCE
The 3-day International Conference aims to provide an
interdisciplinary platform where evolutionary scholars
from the exact, technological, life, human and socio-
cultural sciences can exchange ideas and techniques on
how to conceptualize, model, and quantify biological
and sociocultural evolution. The Conference is orga-
nized by the Applied Evolutionary Epistemology Lab
of the Centre for Philosophy of Science of the Univer-
sity of Lisbon, in collaboration with the Calouste Gul-
benkian Foundation, and with the support of the John
Templeton Foundation.
PLENARY AND INVITED SPEAKERS
Plenary Speakers Michael Benton, Tal Dagan, John
Jungck, Carl Knappett, Daniel McShea, Alex Mesoudi,
Mark Pagel, Tyler Volk, and Richard Watson
Invited Speakers Quentin Atkinson, Alberto Bisin &
Thierry Verdier, Andreas Bohn, Michael Bradie, Jorge
Carneiro, Claudine Chaouiya, Mark Collard, Alex de
Voogt, Frank Kressing & Matthis Krischel, Andr e Levy,
Margarida Matos, Telmo Pievani, Luis Mateus Rocha,
Elio Sucena
The conference website contains biographies of all
speakers as well as the abstracts of their talk.
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
We call for bio-informaticians, evolutionary biologists,
microbiologists, paleontologists, geologists, physicists,
mathematicians, anthropologists, archeologists, lin-guists, sociologists, economists, and philosophers and
historians of science to provide talks on the following
topics: 1. Conceptualization, quantication and model-
ing of horizontal and vertical transmission in biological
and sociocultural sciences 2. Conceptualization, quan-
tication and modeling of micro- and macroevolution
in biological and sociocultural sciences 3. Hierarchy
theory and the units, levels and mechanisms of evolu-
tion 4. How the universal application of evolutionary
theories enables new possibilities for inter- and trans-
disciplinary research and the unication of the sciences
We encourage submissions of (1) concrete models and
simulations, (2) theoretical, reexive talks, and (3) his-
torical accounts on any of the above mentioned topics.
POSSIBLE FORMATS
We call for mini-symposia (3 or 6 talks), poster sessions
(3 or 6 posters), as well as individual regular and poster
talks.
IMPORTANT DATES
Deadline Submissions: February 1st, 2013 Notication
of Acceptance: March 1st, 2013 Registration Deadline
for all Presenters: April 1st, 2013 Registration Dead-
line Audience: May 1st, 2013 Conference Dates: May
27th-29th, 2013
REGISTRATION FEES
Professors: 300 euro jPhD and post-docs: 250 euro j
Audience: 100 euro jStudents: 50 euro
DOWNLOAD OUR POSTER
http://evolutionarypatterns.fc.ul.pt/docs/patterns.pdf
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR MAILINGLIST
http://eepurl.com/n2DTL FURTHER INFORMA-
TION
http://evolutionarypatterns.fc.ul.pt;
http://appeel.fc.ul.pt
AppEEL Announcements
<appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt >
Montpellier
MathCompEvolutionaryBiol
May27-31
MCEB conference: Mathematical and Computational
Evolutionary Biology
Webpage:http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2013/ Pre-16 EvolDir January 1, 2013
registration deadline: January 20
Scope: Mathematical and computational tools and con-
cepts form an essential basis for modern evolutionary
studies. The goal of the MCEB conference (at its 5th
edition) is to bring together scientists with diverse back-
grounds to present recent advances and discuss open
problems in the eld of mathematical and computa-
tional evolutionary biology. This year a special focus
will be given to the applications to health, for example
with regard to human and cancer genomics, genetic dis-
eases and virus epidemics. General concepts, models,
methods and algorithms will also be presented and dis-
cussed, just as during the previous conference editions.
Where and when: Hameau de l'Etoile (http://-
www.hameaudeletoile.com/) in the Montpellier region,
South of France, 27-31 May 2013.
Cost: Conference fees including accommodation (4
nights), meals, coee breaks, buses, etc., will range
from 350 to 500 depending on the room type. PhDs
and postdocs will benet of the cheapest rooms.
Keynote speakers: Sebastian Boenhoeer (ETH Z urich,
CH) Bastien Bousseau (University of California, Berke-
ley, US) Alexei Drummond (University of Auckland,
NZ) Ian Holmes (University of California, Berkeley,
US) Steven Kelk (Maastricht University, NL) Darren
Martin (University of Cape Town, ZA) Erick Matsen
(Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, US)
Tanja Stadler (ETH Z urich, CH) Simon Tavar e (Uni-
versity of Cambridge, UK and University of Southern
California, US) Gil McVean (Wellcome Trust Centre for
Human Genetics, Oxford, UK)
For more information, see the website at:http://-
www.lirmm.fr/mceb2013/ Please forward this an-
nouncement
Olivier gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >
Oeiras Portugal Evolution Dec21
Deadline
Dear colleagues of the evolution community,
This is a reminder that the deadline for sending ab-
stracts to the for the VIII Portuguese Evolutionary Bi-
ology Meeting is November 30th!! The meeting will be
held in Oeiras, Portugal, on the 21st of December.
You can register and submit abstracts here: http://-
www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/enbe2012/ In addition, if youwant to have lunch at the Instituto Gulbenkian de
Ci^ encia, please follow the instructions in the site. We
will need to have an estimate of the number of people
interested in lunch before December 14th.
We expect this meeting to be a landmark for the study
of evolution in Portugal, since we will have the rst
elections for the Portuguese association for evolution-
ary biology. For more information regarding the APBE
and its mission, please visit http://www.apbe.pt .
Please forward this email to anyone you know that
might be interested in participating.
The ENBE organizing committee
Lilia Perfeito <lilia.perfeito@gmail.com >
lilia.perfeito@gmail.com
Paris MicrobialEvolution Oct2-5
10th International Meeting on Microbial Epidemiologi-
cal Markers, October 2-5, 2013
The ability of microbes - bacteria, viruses, fungi and
parasites - to mutate rapidly, disseminate and adapt to
new hosts and environments, forces us to increase our
capabilities for the early recognition of novel strains
of pathogens, and to understand the factors that con-
tribute to their diversity, evolution and dissemination.
IMMEM-10 will address a variety of topics related to
pathogen emergence, population-level diversity, evolu-
tion of virulence and antibiotic resistance, strain track-
ing, typing networks, public health and surveillance,
novel typing approaches, high-throughput sequencing,
genomics, and molecular epidemiology of infectious dis-
eases. The meeting will take place at Institut Pasteur,
in the heart of Paris.
On behalf of the Organizing Committee, Sylvain Brisse,
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France
INVITED SPEAKERS Andrea Ammon, European
Center for Disease Control, Stockholm, Sweden Siv
Andersson, Uppsala University, Sweden Alessandra
Carattoli, Institute of Public Health, Rome, Italy
Stewart Cole, Global Health Institute, Lausanne,
Switzerland Alex Friedrich, University Medical Center
Groningen, Netherlands Peter Gerner-Smidt, CDC, At-
lanta, USA Matthew Gilmour, Public Health Agency
of Canada, Winnipeg, Canada Hajo Grundmann,
RIVM, Bilthoven, Netherlands Joerg Hacker, German
Academy of Sciences Leopoldina, Berlin, GermanyJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
Dag Harmsen, Universit atsklinikum M unster, Germany
Ren e Hendriksen, DTU, Denmark Keith Jolley, Ox-
ford, UK Philippe Lemey, Leuven, Belgium Martin
Maiden, Oxford University, UK Claudine M edigue,
CEA-Genoscope, Evry, France Julian Parkhill, Well-
come Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK Laurent
Poirel, Univ. Paris Sud, Kremlin-Bic^ etre, France Marc
Struelens, eCDC, Stockholm, Sweden Anne-Mieke Van-
damme, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium
SCIENTIFIC SESSIONS Novel genomics technolo-
gies Population genetics, phylogenomics, gene ux
Genomic typing of bacterial pathogens Phylodynam-
ics of viral pathogens Emergence of virulence Emer-
gence of resistance Typing and surveillance networks
High-throughput sequencing and diagnostics/discovery
Bioinformatics tools for surveillance and population bi-
ology Bioinformatics tools for comparative and evolu-
tionary genomics
Early registration up to June 15, 2013 Standard fee:
400; Student fee: 300 The abstracts submission man-
ager will open early 2013.
WEB SITE For more information and updates, please
visit us at www.immem-x.org CONTACT Chryst ele
Blin Congress-Events Institut Pasteur, CIS 28 rue du
Dr Roux 75015 PARIS France immem-x@pasteur.fr
Sylvain BRISSE <sylvain.brisse@pasteur.fr >
Portugal OligochaeteTaxonomy
Apr22-25
6th IOTM
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
For its 6th edition, the IOTM goes to *Palmeira de
Faro* in the north of Portugal! Located at 4 km from
Esposende, in the parish of Palmeira de Faro, Quinta
da Seara is a privileged space of interaction with the re-
gion. On one side, the sea and the magnicent beaches
of Esposende. On the other, the rural landscape in-
dented by river Cavado, rich in stories and traditions.
Oligochaeta (few-bristled worms) is an extremely im-
portant taxonomic group in aquatic and terrestrial
ecosystems. In spite of the importance of oligochaetes,
there are presently some serious deciencies in the
knowledge about their taxonomy, distribution, biol-
ogy and ecology, in comparison with mammals, birds,
lizards and other organismal groups. One way to bridgethis gap is to bring together scientists working on the
subject with the aim to speed up information about the
progress in their work, exchange ideas and encourage
them to cooperate. This is the basic idea behind the or-
ganization of the International Oligochaeta Taxonomy
Meetings (IOTM). So far, ve successful meetings took
place. Traditionally, the meetings concentrate mainly
on Oligochaete taxonomy and phylogeny, but also dis-
cuss dierent aspects from other scientic elds, e.g.
earthworm ecology, faunistics and phylogeography as
well as new methods of their study. The 6th Interna-
tional Oligochaete Taxonomy Meeting will continue in
the best tradition of the previous four meetings and will
take place in Palmeira de Faro in Portugal, from April
22th to April 25th, 2013. An optional eld excursion
will be organised on April 26th.
We are quite convinced that you will like the venue of
the Quinta da Seara in Palmeira de Faro, in the North
of Portugal. It is located in a wonderful region, calm
and beautiful.
On our web site <http://6thiotm.tomas-pavlicek-
biologie.net/ >, you will nd a lot of information con-
cerning the conference and its venue. And of course,
you can already register !
Promote the conference among your colleagues and if
you have some addresses that we could add to our mail-
ing list, please let us know.
Cordially yours,
Dr Tomas Pavlicek (Convenor of the 6th IOTM)
Patricia Cardet (Secretary and webmaster)
6thiotm.tomas-pavlicek-biologie.net contact@patricia-
cardet.net contact@tomas-pavlicek-biologie.net Skype:
patriciacardet
\contact@patricia-cardet.net"
PrincetonU OriginOfLife Jan21-24
Princeton Origin of Life Conference NAI and SMBE
Satellite Workshop on the Origin of Life 21-24 January
2013 Princeton University
http://www.pctp.princeton.edu/pcts/-
Originoife2013/Originoife2013.html Organizers:
Laura Landweber and Aaron Goldman
The last few decades have witnessed the burgeoning
of many highly productive lines of investigation into18 EvolDir January 1, 2013
abiogenesis and the early emergence of biological com-
plexity. Planetary sciences and geochemistry have pro-
duced a short-list of well-studied settings where pre-
biotic chemistry may have led to the transition from
non-living to living matter. Major advances in abiotic
syntheses of important biomolecules have resulted in
an improved understanding of the relative availabilities
of proto-biomolecules. The continuing growth of bioin-
formatics databases has given computational biologists
an unprecedented ability to reconstruct the properties
of early organisms and ancient evolutionary histories.
Synthetic biology now allows investigators to examine
the boundaries of life's genetic systems and minimal life
in the laboratory. In general, the advance of astrobi-
ology has expanded our understanding of habitability
and life as cosmological phenomena. This workshop will
integrate these themes, foster new local, national and
international collaborations, and actively encourage sci-
entists from within and outside the Princeton commu-
nity to pursue studies of life's origins. The workshop
program will bring together researchers in these dis-
parate subjects and subelds to address the questions
of life's origins in the astronomical, chemical, genetic,
evolutionary, and information-theoretic contexts.
Registration is free, but space is limited. The Nas-
sau Inn is the only hotel in walking distance from
the venue. Please make hotel reservations ASAP
to guarantee a room at the Nassau Inn, 1-609-921-
7500, www.nassauinn.com, group name \Origins of
Life-PCTS". The cost is a total of $151.20 per night
(tax included). Cancellations or changes to reservations
must be made in writing by 3 pm, 24 hours prior to the
day of arrival to avoid being charged for any unused
nights.
Information about lecture webcasts will also be made
available on the website.
Jointly sponsored by the NASA Astrobiology Institute
(NAI), Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) and Princeton Center for Theoretical Science
(PCTS)
Laura Landweber <l@princeton.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley
EvolutionaryBiology
TheoryOfComputing Jan13-May16
The newly created Simons Institute for the Theoryof Computing at UC Berkeley will host a semester-
long program on \Evolutionary Biology and the
Theory of Computing" (http://simons.berkeley.edu/-
program evolution2014.html), to be held from January
13, 2014 to May 16, 2014. There are fellowship oppor-
tunities for outstanding junior scientists (up to 6 years
from PhD) to spend the semester at the Institute and
participate in the program. Further information can be
found below.
Simons-Berkeley Research Fellowships are intended for
exceptional young scientists (within at most six years of
the award of their Ph.D.). Applicants who already hold
junior faculty or postdoctoral positions are welcome to
apply. In particular, applicants who hold, or expect to
hold, postdoctoral appointments at other institutions
are encouraged to apply to spend one semester as a
Simons-Berkeley Fellow subject to the approval of the
postdoctoral institution.
The url for the fellowship applications is http://-
simons.berkeley.edu/fellows.html Deadline for applica-
tions: 15 January, 2013.
Evolutionary Biology and the Theory of Computing
13 January to 16 May, 2014
Evolutionary biology is an intellectually rich eld which
has advanced remarkably through a synergistic inter-
play between deep understanding of biology and math-
ematical techniques, especially from probability and
statistics. Over the past several decades, the role of
computer science in studying biology has grown enor-
mously, and computation has now become an indispens-
able part of the intellectual mix. Many current prob-
lems in evolutionary biology push the limits of com-
putation, and new algorithmic insights are needed to
make progress.
The objective of this program is to promote the inter-
action between theoretical computer scientists and re-
searchers from evolutionary biology, physics, probabil-
ity, and statistics. The participants of the program will
collaborate to identify and tackle some of the most im-
portant theoretical and computational challenges aris-
ing from evolutionary biology. The major themes of the
program will be sound mathematical modeling, rigorous
methods for statistical estimation, and computational
scalability.
Organizers: Yun S. Song (UC Berkeley; chair), An-
drew G. Clark (Cornell), Rick Durrett (Duke), Charles
H. Langley (UC Davis), Christos Papadimitriou (UC
Berkeley), Leslie Valiant (Harvard).
Long-Term Participants (in addition to Organizers):
Nick Barton (IST Austria), Graham Coop (UC Davis),January 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
Costis Daskalakis (MIT), Alison Etheridge (Oxford),
Steven Evans (UC Berkeley), Marc Feldman (Stan-
ford), Vitaly Feldman (IBM Almaden), Daniel Fisher
(Stanford), Dan Guseld (UC Davis), Oskar Hal-
latschek (UC Berkeley), Eran Halperin (Tel Aviv),
Joachim Hermisson (Vienna), John Huelsenbeck (UC
Berkeley), Varun Kanade (UC Berkeley), Sampath
Kannan (U Penn), Adi Livnat (Virginia Tech), Ger-
ton Lunter (Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Ge-
netics), Gil McVean (Oxford), Elchanan Mossel (UC
Berkeley), Rasmus Nielsen (UC Berkeley), Lior Pachter
(UC Berkeley), Nick Patterson (Broad Institute), Lea
Popovic (Concordia), Satish Rao (UC Berkeley), Se-
bastien Roch (University of Wisconsin), Eric Sig-
gia (Rockefeller), Montgomery Slatkin (UC Berkeley),
Wolfgang Stephan (LMU Munich), Greg Valiant (Stan-
ford), Paul Valiant (Brown), Nisheeth Vishnoi (Mi-
crosoft Research India).
Workshops: During the semester there will be three
workshops spanning the topics of the program. These
are planned as follows:
Workshop 1 : \Computation-Intensive Probabilistic
and Statistical Methods for Large-Scale Population Ge-
nomics." Organizers: Andrew G. Clark (Cornell), Ras-
mus Nielsen (UC Berkeley), Yun S. Song (UC Berke-
ley).
Workshop 2: \Computational Theories of Evolution."
Organizers: Christos Papadimitriou (UC Berkeley),
Leslie Valiant (Harvard).
Workshop 3 : \New Directions in Probabilistic Mod-
els of Evolution." Organizers: Rick Durrett (Duke),
Steven Evans (UC Berkeley).
yss@eecs.berkeley.edu
UColorado Denver ProteinEvolution
Feb7-9 2
SMBE Satellite Meeting on Mechanisms of Protein
Evolution II
We are pleased to announce the SMBE Satellite Meet-
ing on Mechanisms of Protein Evolution II: Thermody-
namics, Phylogenetics, and Structure (MPEII 2013), to
take place at the University of Colorado Denvers An-
schutz Medical Campus, February 7-9, 2013.
The meeting aims to broadly cover the interface of pro-
tein evolutionary mechanisms, models of amino acidsubstitution, genomics/systems biology and phyloge-
netics. Topics also include adaptation, coevolution,
convergence, neutral processes including mutation, pre-
diction of folding, prediction of mutational eects, the
inuence of protein-protein interactions on protein evo-
lution, and the interaction of next-gen sequencing and
model development. This is a small meeting, with
plenty of opportunity for interaction. Talks by stu-
dents as well as more senior scientists are encouraged,
and there will be a poster session this year in addi-
tion to talks. This meeting is also partially sponsored
by BMC Evolutionary Biology and the UC Denver De-
partment of Biochemistry & Molecular Genetics, Pro-
gram in Computational Bioscience, and Consortium for
Comparative Genomics.
Conrmed invited speakers include: Belinda Chang,
University of Toronto Andy Clark, Cornell University
Tony Dean, University of Minnesota Richard Goldstein,
National Institute of Medical Research (UK) David
Hillis, University of Texas Je Kieft, University of Col-
orado School of Medicine Nicolas Lartillot, University
of Montreal David Liberles, University of Wyoming
Michael Lynch, Indiana University James McInerney,
National University of Ireland-Maynooth Mary OCon-
nell, Dublin City University David Pollock, Univer-
sity of Colorado School of Medicine Je Thorne, North
Carolina State University Naomi Ward, University of
Wyoming
More information and registration can be found at
http://www.proteinevolution.org. The early registra-
tion deadline is December 15, 2012. A ski trip at Cop-
per Mountain (CO) is being planned for attendees in
the day(s) that follow the meeting. We hope you can
join us in Denver for this event.
David Pollock, James McInerney, and David Liberles
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UMichigan Macroevolution
FossilsPhylogenies
NINTH ANNUAL UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
MACROEVOLUTION: FOSSILS, FRAMEWORKS
AND PHYLOGENIES
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites nominations of
outstanding scientists early in their careers to take part20 EvolDir January 1, 2013
in an exciting international symposium on the concep-
tual and methodological integration of paleontological
and phylogenetic approaches to the study of macroevo-
lution. The symposium events will take place from 15-
17 March 2013, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Nine early-career scientists will be selected to present
their work alongside two plenary speakers and partici-
pate in panel discussions. We welcome nominations of
scientists who are studying any aspect of macroevolu-
tion using paleontological, molecular phylogenetic, or
theoretical approaches. We are especially interested in
scientists whose work recognizes the promises and/or
challenges of developing a unied neontological and pa-
leontological framework for understanding macroevolu-
tionary patterns.
Early career scientists are dened as senior graduate
students (who stand to receive their Ph.D. within one
year), postdoctoral researchers, and rst- or second-
year faculty. A colleague or advisor must provide the
nomination.
A nomination consists of a brief letter of recommen-
dation addressing the nominees scientic promise and
ability to give a good talk, the nominee's curriculum
vitae, and a brief abstract of the proposed presentation
(<200 words, written by the nominee). Nominations
may be sent electronically (in one le if possible) to eeb-
ecss-nomination@umich.edu using the nominee's name
as the subject line (last name rst, please). More in-
formation is available at http://sitemaker.umich.edu/-ecss2013 . All nominations must be received by January
15, 2013.
Selected participants will be contacted by February 1,
2013 and will have all expenses covered (registration,
travel and accommodation). An ocial announcement
of the slate of speakers will be issued soon thereafter.
For more information, contact Cindy Carl at
cacarl@umich.edu.
2013 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing
committee:
Lauren Sallan lsallan@umich.edu
Dan Rabosky drabosky@umich.edu
Yin-Long Qiu ylqiu@umich.edu
Joseph Brown josephwb@umich.edu
Valerie Syverson vsyverson@gmail.com
Qixin He heqixin@umich.edu
Michigan EEB website: http://www.lsa.umich.edu/-
eeb/
Lauren Sallan, PhD Assistant Professor, Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology & Michigan Fellow, Michi-
gan Society of Fellows University of Michigan Of-
ce: 1076 Ruthven Museums Bldg Phone: (734)
764-0477 Websites: www.lsa.umich.edu/directory/-
faculty/lsallan www.LaurenSallan.com Lauren Sallan
<lsallan@umich.edu >
GradStudentPositions
ArizonaStateU TenebrionidBeetleSystematics . . . . . .21
BrighamYoungU DragonyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
BrighamYoungU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
CUNY MarineMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
DurhamU HolocenePopDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
ErasmusMundus EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
KAUST SaudiArabia CoralReefBiodiversity . . . . . . . 25
LeibnizInst Germany PlantSexEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Leipzig 6 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Leipzig Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
LeipzigMPI ChimpanzeeMHC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27LouisianaStateU PhylogeneticsMolecularEvolution .28
MNS LouisianaStateU Malaria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MasseyU NZ BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
MaxPlanck HumanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
MichiganStateU BEACON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Portland PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
PortlandStateU EvolGeneticsPlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
QueensU Belfast InsectImmunityEvolution . . . . . . . . 33
RutgersU ViralPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
SUNY Binghamton Evolutionary Genetics . . . . . . . . .34
SanFranciscoStateU SalamanderEvolution . . . . . . . . . 34January 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
Spain PlantEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
StLouisU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
TexasTechU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 36
TrentU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
TulaneU AvianSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UAlberta EvolutionInfectiousDiseases . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UAntwerp EvolutionaryEcologyBirdParasites . . . . . . 37
UArkansas Diatom Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UAuckland EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UBielefeld EvolutionaryBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UCanberra LandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UCincinnati EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UEdinburgh ParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UEdinburgh TreeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UExeter MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
UGiessen Germany EvolutionaryEcologyTribolium 44
UGroningen 2 EvolutionarySystemsBiology . . . . . . . .45
UGroningen AvianMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46ULausanne LifeHistoryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ULausanne Parthenogenesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UMuenster SexualConict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
UNottingham Evolution Colour Polymorphism . . . . 49
UOtago NZ GeneticsComplexAvianCognition . . . . . 50
UPompeuFabra Barcelona 2 EvolutionaryGenomics 51
URhodeIsland EvolutionParasitism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UStAndrews EvolutionaryBioionformatics . . . . . . . . . 52
UStAndrews MarineDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
UStAndrews SexAllocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
USussex EectivePopulationSize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
USussex SocialWaspEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UToronto PopulationDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UtahStateU ForestLandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
ZurichU Social evolution birds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
ArizonaStateU
TenebrionidBeetleSystematics
Graduate Research Assistantship - Tenebrionid Sys-
tematics, Arizona State University
An NSF-funded graduate research assistantship is avail-
able (on short notice!) to study tenebrionid systematics
in the School of Life Sciences at Arizona State Univer-
sity. The application deadline is December 15, 2012, for
entry into the Ph.D. program in Evolutionary Biology
in the Fall of 2013. The research project will focus on
the systematics of the darkling beetle genus *Eleodes*
(Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) - a diverse genus of ight-
less beetles endemic to western North America and
commonly referred to as pinacate beetles or stink bee-
tles.
The selected student will be mentored by Drs. Aaron
Smith, Nico Franz, and Quentin Wheeler, and will
concentrate on revising the *Eleodes* subgenera *Pro-
mus *and *Tricheleodes* using comparative morpho-
logical and molecular information. Additional tasks
will include contributions to an emerging Coleoptera
Anatomy Ontology, eld work, and outreach. Aca-
demic excellence and a strong background in insect sys-
tematics are highly desirable.
Interested candidates should contact Nico Franz imme-
diately at nico.franz@asu.edu with a brief statement of
their interests and qualications.http://tenebrionidbase.org/public/site/-
tenebrionidbase/home http://franz.lab.asu.edu/
nmfranz@asu.edu
BrighamYoungU
DragonyEvolution
The Bybee Lab at Brigham Young University in the De-
partment of Biology is seeking highly motivated grad-
uate students with an interest in evolutionary biology,
insect phylogenetics and/or genomics. Our lab is cur-
rently funded by the National Science Foundation to
produce a large-scale phylogeny of both fossil and ex-
tant Odonata.
Research Interests
The Bybee Lab is focused on the evolution of insects
with a strong emphasis in dragonies and damselies
(Odonata), particularly the evolution of their visual
systems. Our research draws from molecular, morpho-
logical and fossil evidence to examine evolutionary re-
lationships (phylogeny), morphological innovation, and
molecular evolution. As part of this research we are de-
veloping novel methods to \direct" next-generation se-
quencing platforms to target genes or genomic regions
of interest. Students interested in exploring such re-
search topics are strongly encouraged to apply.
Qualications
Applicants should have a background in evolutionary22 EvolDir January 1, 2013
biology. Experience with invertebrate zoology (extant
and/or fossil), phylogenetics, systematics and/or next
generation sequencing methods and quantitative skills
(bioinformatics, computer programming) is a plus. The
successful applicant will have excellent writing, commu-
nication, and interpersonal skills. Prociency in En-
glish (both spoken and written) will be required. Re-
search in the Bybee lab will also require physically de-
manding eldwork from time to time. Salary and ben-
ets are competitive.
Requirements
Ideally, 2 graduate students will be admitted to start
in the Fall of 2013. Applicants looking to do a PhD are
preferred but MS applicants will also be considered.
Interested applicants should send a letter of interest
outlining research interests, career goals and rationale
for pursuing a graduate degree, along with a CV to
seth.bybee@gmail.com.
BYU
The Ecology and Evolutionary Ecology group is a di-
verse set of faculty working on plants, animals, and mi-
crobes in the areas of evolutionary ecology, conservation
biology, biogeography, phylogeography, population and
community ecology, biogeochemistry, evolutionary and
ecological stoichiometry, and ecosystem ecology. There
is a focus on integrating modeling, theory, and experi-
mentation.
The Molecular Systematics group features faculty work-
ing in both model and non-model systems in experimen-
tal laboratory and eld applications. Specic areas of
research include genomics (experimental and computa-
tional), molecular evolution, population genetics, quan-
titative genetics, biogeography, phylogeography, and
the evolution of genetic and infectious diseases.
Graduate students admitted to the program receive
guaranteed funding from the department for up to 5
years. More information on the application process and
Graduate School at BYU can be found here: http://-
graduatestudies.byu.edu/ Application deadline is Jan
15th 2013.
Brigham Young University is aliated with and spon-
sored by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints. All students are required to abide by the
university's honor code and dress and grooming stan-
dards: http://saas.byu.edu/catalog/2011-2012ucat/-
GeneralInfo/HonorCode.php#HCOceInvovement .It
is an equal opportunity employer, does not discrimi-
nate on the basis of race, color, gender, age, national
origin, veteran status, or against qualied individuals
with disabilities.BYU is located in the heart of the Rocky Mountains
in Provo Utah with world famous attractions (e.g., na-
tional parks, ski resorts, etc.) close by. Year round,
outdoor activities such as Skiing, hiking and biking are
all within a 20 minute drive of campus.
Contact Information
Seth Bybee, PhD
Assistant Professor
Department of Biology
401 WIDB
Provo, UT 84602
801-422-3152
Seth.bybee@gmail.com
seth.bybee@gmail.com
BrighamYoungU EvolutionaryBiol
GRADUATE POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF BIOLOGY AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVER-
SITY
The Department of Biology at Brigham Young Uni-
versity (BYU) welcomes applications from highly mo-
tivated students interested in joining our MS or PhD
program in the Fall of 2013. The department (http:/-
/biology.byu.edu) comprises a large and dynamic fac-
ulty spanning a diverse array of research areas including
informal and collaborative research groups in Ecology,
Evolutionary Ecology, Molecular Systematics, Bioinfor-
matics, Conservation Biology, and Biological Science
Education.
The Ecology and Evolutionary Ecology group is a di-
verse set of faculty working on plants, fungi, animals,
and microbes in the areas of evolutionary ecology, con-
servation biology, biogeography, phylogeography, pop-
ulation and community ecology, biogeochemistry, envi-
ronmental monitoring, evolutionary and ecological sto-
ichiometry, and ecosystem ecology. There is a focus on
integrating modeling, theory, and experimentation.
The Molecular Systematics group features faculty work-
ing in both model and non-model systems in experimen-
tal laboratory and eld applications. Specic areas of
research include genomics (experimental and computa-
tional), molecular evolution, population genetics, quan-
titative genetics, biogeography, phylogeography, andJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
the evolution of genetic and infectious diseases.
Faculty in the Bioinformatics group maintain research
programs in the genetics of human disease, systems bi-
ology, molecular evolution, and computational biology,
including solutions for next generation sequencing ap-
plications.
The Biological Science Education group involves re-
search at all levels of education, focusing on inquiry
teaching, learning theory, and assessment of science
pedagogy. Faculty in this focal group also use this plat-
form for various outreach activities, including K-12 col-
laborative projects with the State Oce of Education.
Each of the focal groups in our department maintain
strong collaborative ties with each other, as well as
other departments on campus, including Plant and
Wildlife Sciences, Microbiology and Molecular Biology,
Statistics, Computer Science, and the McKay School of
Education.
Exceptional facilities and resources for carrying
out research are available through the Monte L.
Bean Life ScienceMuseum (http://mlbean.byu.edu),
Lytle Ranch Preserve (http://mlbean.byu.edu/-
LytlePreserve/AbouttheLytle.aspx), the DNA Se-
quencing Center (http://dnasc.byu.edu/Default.aspx),
the Research Instrumentation Core Facility (http:/-
/ricfacility.byu.edu), the Microscopy Lab (http://-
microscopy.byu.edu) and the Fulton Supercomputing
Lab (https://marylou.byu.edu). We will be moving
into a new Life Sciences building in 2014 (http://-
news.byu.edu/archive11-nov-lifesciencesbuilding.aspx).
BYU is located in Provo, Utah, where opportunities for
world-class skiing, y-shing, kayaking, hiking, moun-
tain biking, and many other outdoor recreational activ-
ities are less than 20 minutes from the lab. Salt Lake
City is only 45 minutes travel by car or commuter rail.
For full consideration, complete applications should be
received by January 30, 2013. We strongly encourage
prospective applicants to contact faculty members as
soon as possible to discuss their research interests. Fi-
nancial support for graduate students is competitive
and comes from a variety of sources, including teach-
ing assistantships, research assistantships, fellowships,
and external research funds. Faculty Proles can be ac-
cessed here: http://biology.byu.edu/DepartmentInfo/-
OurPeople/FacultySta.aspx Byron Adams
Brigham Young University Department of Biology 401
WIDB Provo, UT 84602
801 422 3132 (oce) 801 422 8723 (lab) 801 422 2582
(dept. oce) 801 422 0090 (fax)
byron adams@byu.eduCUNY MarineMolecularEvolution
Multiple PhD Positions in Marine Molecular Ecology
at the City University of New York
The newly established marine molecular ecology
laboratory at Brooklyn College is recruiting 2-3
PhD students for September 2013 admission to
the Ecology, Evolutionary Biology and Behavior
program (EEB) at the CUNY Graduate Center
in New York City (http://www.gc.cuny.edu/Page-
Elements/Academics-Research-Centers-Initiatives
/Doctoral-Programs/Biology/Subprograms/Ecology,-
Evolutionary-Biology,-and-Be havior). The EEB
incorporates a diverse group of 66 faculty from 8
colleges of the City University of New York, as well as
the American Museum of Natural History.
The research of our lab focuses primarily on the study of
the evolution of reproductive complexity in aquatic en-
vironments. The exceptional reproductive diversity of
aquatic animals provides opportunities to explore cen-
tral tenets of sexual selection theory. We study a num-
ber of dierent freshwater and marine model systems
(e.g. seahorses and cichlid shes, marine amphipods,
freshwater snails), using a combination of eld, labora-
tory and experimental approaches to investigate how
selective pressures contribute to the evolution of re-
productive diversity across space and time. Molecu-
lar methods are an integral component of this research,
and recent advances in high-throughput functional ge-
nomics are providing unique insights into the early de-
velopment of complex reproductive systems.
Graduate students will be encouraged to develop in-
dependent research projects in collaboration with the
lab PI, and young researchers interested in under-
standing the evolution of nearshore marine commu-
nities are particularly encouraged to apply. Success-
ful applicants will have access to modern molecular
and laboratory infrastructure at Brooklyn College and
the opportunity to carry out extended eld and ex-
perimental research projects in Jamaica Bay and the
Aquatic Research and Environmental Assessment Cen-
ter in Brooklyn (http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/web/-
academics/centers/areac.php).
Brooklyn College is a senior college of the CUNY sys-
tem, located on a leafy 26-acre campus in Brooklyn,
New York, one of the most culturally diverse areas of
the city, with a dynamic arts and music scene. Reg-24 EvolDir January 1, 2013
ularly cited as one of the top urban environments in
the US, Brooklyn is located at the southern tip of Long
Island, oering ready access to both the seashore and
the city.
Formal application to the graduate program
in EEB must be made directly to the CUNY
GC before January 1, 2013 for Septem-
ber admission http://www.gc.cuny.edu/Page-
Elements/Academics-Research-Centers-Initiatives/
Doctoral-Programs/Biology/Subprograms/Ecology,-
Evolutionary-Biology,-and-Beh avior/Admissions).
Informal enquiries concerning graduate opportunities
in the lab can be made directly to Tony Wilson
(tony.wilson@ieu.uzh.ch).
Tony Wilson Assistant Professor, Evolution and Biodi-
versity Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environ-
mental Studies
University of Zurich Room Y44J55 Winterthurerstrasse
190 CH 8057 Zurich Switzerland Tel: 41 44 635 4790
Fax: 41 44 635 4780 http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/agwilson
tony.wilson@ieu.uzh.ch
DurhamU HolocenePopDynamics
Competitive PhD studentship available at Durham
University, UK on:
\Holocene population dynamics and connectivity of
top predator species in the context of environmental
change"
The study will use ancient DNA derived from bones
available from museum collections for the northern lynx
(and including comparator species such as the wolf as
possible and appropriate) to address hypotheses about
the impact of environmental change on the distribution
of diversity, patterns of connectivity and the historical
population dynamics of top predators in Europe during
the Holocene.
Molecular genetic methods (especially associated with
mtDNA amplication and coalescent-based analyses)
will be used to assess patterns of historical connectiv-
ity and population dynamics, and published environ-
mental data including palaeoecological evidence from
sediment cores (well represented across the study area)
will be used for comparison against data from ancient
DNA. When possible, shifts in diet will be tracked using
stable isotope analyses. The relative importance of key
environmental factors will be assessed using generalisedlinear model (GLM) and multiple regression analyses.^ a
For more information contact Prof. Rus Hoelzel at
Durham University (a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk).
Applications including a cover letter, a c.v., under-
graduate and postgraduate (as applicable) grade tran-
scripts, and two letters of reference (sent indepen-
dently) should reach a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk by 7 Febru-
ary 2013 at the latest.
\HOELZEL A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
ErasmusMundus EvolutionaryBiol
Erasmus Mundus Joint Master in Evolutionary Biol-
ogy (MEME) is a 2-year research oriented master pro-
gramme for talented and motivated European and non-
European students who are interested in understanding
evolution in all its facets.
Deadline to apply: 4 January 2013 for EU and non-EU
students and scholars.
The MEME programme will address the driving forces
of evolution at all levels of organismal organization
(from cells and individuals to populations and ecosys-
tems), and it will allow students to study all kinds of or-
ganisms (microorganisms, plants, animals) in all kind-
sof habitats (marine as well as terrestrial) with a diver-
sity of approaches (eld, lab, theory). The focus of the
programme is not only on how evolution shaped life on
our planet in the past, but also on how understanding
the principles underlying evolution can provide new in-
sights and help to cope with present-day challenges in a
variety of elds, including ecology, epidemiology, phys-
iology, immunology, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics,
economics and the social sciences. Only few universities
in the world would be able to oer a programme of such-
broad scope without compromising scientic quality.
For this reason, four European universities (University
of Groningen (Netherlands), University of Montpellier
II (France), Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich
(Germany), Uppsala University (Sweden)) have joined
forces with Harvard University (USA). Together, this
consortium is able to put together an attractive multi-
disciplinary programme that meets highest standards.
All students have to study at at least two partner uni-
versities, and they will receive either a joint MSc degree
from the whole consortium or double degrees from two
partner universities.
Being nanced by theEuropean Community,MEME hasJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
to satisfy the high quality standardsimposed the pres-
tigiousErasmus Mundus Programme. Full scholarships
are availablefor EU and non-EU Students and Scholars
(as visiting scientists). Scholarships will be awarded
after a selective procedure.
Application deadline: 4 January 2013 Starting date
master programme: September 2013 Who for? Euro-
pean and non-European students and scholars
More information and how to apply for EU and non-
EU students on: www.evobio.eu Questions about
the application procedure and requirements: Dr Irma
Knevel (i.c.knevel@rug.nl) Questions about the con-
tents of the programme: Prof dr Franjo Weissing
(f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
i.c.knevel@rug.nl
KAUST SaudiArabia
CoralReefBiodiversity
Subject: KAUST PhD and MSc Fellowships
Dear Colleagues,
We are now considering applications for full fellowships
to commence MSc and PhD studies in the Reef Ecol-
ogy Lab at the King Abdullah University of Science
and Technology (KAUST) in Saudi Arabia. One PhD
fellowship is associated with the \Biodiversity of Saudi
Arabian Coral Reefs" project at KAUST.
Please see below for further information.
Thanks, Michael Berumen and Joseph DiBattista
Ph.D. and MSc Student Fellowships - Reef Ecology
Application Deadline: 15 January 2013
Starting Date: August 2013
We seek to enlist a Ph.D. student in the Marine Science
program at KAUST with a background in marine ecol-
ogy, statistics, database management, and strong com-
putational skills. Signicant research and eld experi-
ence, as well as experience with phylogenetics and/or
phylogeography is preferred. The successful candidate
will join the 'Reef Ecology' group of PI Michael Beru-
men within the Red Sea Research Center in KAUST.
The group is collaborating in an international frame-
work to catalogue biodiversity of coral reefs along Saudi
Arabia's extensive coastline. Potential projects include
taxonomic survey/revision of a focal group, phyloge-netics or phylogeography of Red Sea organisms, large-
scale demographic studies, and other projects aligning
with the goals of the biodiversity study. The position
will involve diving, labwork, and eld trip participa-
tion. Potential MSc students with strong backgrounds
relevant to any current projects conducted in the Reef
Ecology Lab (reefecology.kaust.edu.sa) are welcome to
apply. The KAUST Marine Science MSc requires that
all students complete a research-based thesis. External
co-supervision is encouraged, representing an opportu-
nity for international collaboration with eldwork based
in the Red Sea.
KAUST is a dynamic, new, coeducational international
university campus and community. Opened in Septem-
ber 2009, the campus is located directly on the Red Sea
shore just north of Jeddah and is ideally equipped for
marine biology research. High throughput, Next-Gen
sequencing facilities are on-site as are marine operations
facilities (including several boats dedicated for research
activities). All student fellowship packages includes full
fellowship support for the duration of the degree (1.5
years for MS, 3 years for PhD), providing a highly com-
petitive stipend (US$20,000-30,000 annually) as well as
full tuition awards, housing, health insurance, etc.
For full consideration for these fellowships, applicants
must submit a complete application via the KAUST
website (www.kaust.edu.sa) by the January 15th dead-
line. To discuss areas of mutual research interest rele-
vant to your application, you may send a brief summary
of qualications and area of research interest via email.
Due to the volume of emails received, general inquiries
which do not specify areas of research overlap may not
be answered. Please also include a current curriculum
vitae. All applicants should be aware that a nal de-
termination of suitability for admission to the Marine
Science program cannot be made without receipt of a
complete application via the KAUST Admissions web-
site and review by the Admissions Committee.
Michael L. Berumen Assistant Professor of Marine
Science and Engineering PI Reef Ecology Lab Red
Sea Research Center King Abdullah University for
Science and Technology (www.kaust.edu.sa) Work
phone: (+966) 547700019 Mobile Phone: (+966)
28082376 Web: http://reefecology.kaust.edu.sa/
michael.berumen@kaust.edu.sa
josephdibattista@hotmail.com26 EvolDir January 1, 2013
LeibnizInst Germany PlantSexEvol
Dear colleagues,
I have a PhD position which I'd like to ll as soon as
possible in my group. The position is for 3 years, which
is the normal time required to complete a doctoral de-
gree in Germany.
The student would join a rapidly advancing program
in my group in which we have identied two candi-
date factors which are highly correlated with apomixis
(asexual seed formation) in the genus Boechera. The
work would involve relatively heavy molecular genetic
analyses, and hence previous experience in a molecular
lab would be very benecial (e.g. cloning, sequencing,
plant transformation, siRNA, etc.).
The student would receive their PhD from any Ger-
man University (to be decided together with the stu-
dent), and would join running PhD graduate student
programs both here in our institute as well as at the
IMPRS in Jena (see links below).
If you are interested, please send me a CV and letters
of recommendation, not to mention you can contact me
if you have any questions.
Best wishes Tim
Dr. Tim Sharbel (sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de)
Apomixis Research Group Leader Dept. of Cytogenet-
ics and Genome Analysis Leibniz Institute of Plant Ge-
netics and Crop Plant Research (IPK) Corrensstrae 3,
D-06466 Gatersleben Germany
NOTE NEW WEBPAGE: http://www.ipk-
gatersleben.de/en/dept-cytogenetics-and-genome-
analysis/apomixis/ Adaptomics (DFG funded
project): http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/dfg-
spp1529/Seiten/PG Sharbel SH337 7-1.html In-
ternational Max Planck Research School (IMPRS)
faculty member: http://imprs.ice.mpg.de/ext/faculty-
members.html IPK Webpage www.ipk-gatersleben.de
tel: +049 (0)39482 5608 fax: +049 (0)39482 5137
sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.deLeipzig 6 Biodiversity
6 PhD Positions at the German Centre for Integrative
Biodiversity Research - iDiv in Leipzig, Germany
iDiv is one of the seven National Research Centres
funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG). It
is located in the city of Leipzig and jointly hosted by the
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg (MLU),the
Friedrich Schiller University Jena (FSU), the Univer-
sity of Leipzig (UL), and the Helmholtz Centre for
Environmental Research (UFZ).It is supported by the
Max Planck Society, the Leibniz Association, the Klaus
Tschira Foundation and the Free State of Saxony.
One of the central missions of the German Centre for
Integrative Biodiversity Research is the promotion of
theory-driven synthesis and data-driven theory in bio-
diversity sciences. The concept of iDiv encompasses the
detection of biodiversity, understanding its emergence,
exploring its consequences for ecosystem functions and
services, and developing strategies to safeguard biodi-
versity under global change.
Outstanding students of all nationalities are invited to
apply for doctoral fellowships on:
- Importance of mutualistic interactions for current and
future patterns of plant and bird diversity in the trop-
ical Andes - Ecological Modelling of Genetic Diversity
in Plant Communities - Apiculture and the pollinator
decline: A model for pathogen driven biodiversity risks
- Mapping genetic and species diversity of pollinators
to the ecosystem service of pollination across chang-
ing landscapes - Accelerated Evolution in Chromosomal
Rearrangements and Speciation in Lacertid Lizards -
Plant Physiology/Biospectroscopy
In the active research environment of iDiv, PhD stu-
dents will be embedded in the Young Biodiversity Re-
search Training Group (yDiv). The goal of yDiv is
to educate a new generation of scientists in transdis-
ciplinary biodiversity research, who will have gained
expertise both in experimental as well as theoretical
elds of research.
Fellows will attend lectures and seminars on a broad
range of topics in the eld of biodiversity science and
conduct their research in a modern, international and
integrative working environment. The working lan-
guage is English. Each doctoral fellow receives individ-
ual supervision and mentoring and is guided in her/hisJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
research work by a PhD advisory committee.
Application: We promote a research environment free
of gender bias. Severely disabled persons are encour-
aged to apply and are preferred in the case of equal
suitability. Applicants should hold a MSc or equiva-
lent degree in biology or a related discipline. Applica-
tions are in English and should be sent before January
18, 2013. A detailed description of each position and
the respective application address can be found under
www.idiv-biodiversity.de { Dr. Jula Zimmermann Co-
ordinator of the graduate school yDiv
German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research
(iDiv) Phone: +49(0)341-97-31261 Fax: +49(0)341-97-
31264 Email: jula.zimmermann@idiv-biodiversity.de
University of Leipzig German Centre for Integrative
Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Deutscher Platz 5d 04103
Leipzig Germany
Jula Zimmermann <jula.zimmermann@idiv-
biodiversity.de >
Leipzig Biodiversity
6 PhD Positions at the German Centre for Integrative
Biodiversity Research - iDiv in Leipzig, Germany
iDiv is one of the seven National Research Centres
funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG). It
is located in the city of Leipzig and jointly hosted by the
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg (MLU),the
Friedrich Schiller University Jena (FSU), the Univer-
sity of Leipzig (UL), and the Helmholtz Centre for
Environmental Research (UFZ).It is supported by the
Max Planck Society, the Leibniz Association, the Klaus
Tschira Foundation and the Free State of Saxony.
One of the central missions of the German Centre for
Integrative Biodiversity Research is the promotion of
theory-driven synthesis and data-driven theory in bio-
diversity sciences. The concept of iDiv encompasses the
detection of biodiversity, understanding its emergence,
exploring its consequences for ecosystem functions and
services, and developing strategies to safeguard biodi-
versity under global change. Outstanding students of
all nationalities are invited to apply for doctoral fellow-
ships on:
- Importance of mutualistic interactions for current and
future patterns of plant and bird diversity in the trop-
ical Andes - Ecological Modelling of Genetic Diversityin Plant Communities - Apiculture and the pollinator
decline: A model for pathogen driven biodiversity risks
- Mapping genetic and species diversity of pollinators
to the ecosystem service of pollination across chang-
ing landscapes - Accelerated Evolution in Chromosomal
Rearrangements and Speciation in Lacertid Lizards -
Plant Physiology/Biospectroscopy
In the active research environment of iDiv, PhD stu-
dents will be embedded in the Young Biodiversity Re-
search Training Group (yDiv). The goal of yDiv is
to educate a new generation of scientists in transdis-
ciplinary biodiversity research, who will have gained
expertise both in experimental as well as theoretical
elds of research.
Fellows will attend lectures and seminars on a broad
range of topics in the eld of biodiversity science and
conduct their research in a modern, international and
integrative working environment. The working lan-
guage is English. Each doctoral fellow receives individ-
ual supervision and mentoring and is guided in her/his
research work by a PhD advisory committee. Applica-
tion: We promote a research environment free of gender
bias. Severely disabled persons are encouraged to apply
and are preferred in the case of equal suitability. Appli-
cants should hold a MSc or equivalent degree in biology
or a related discipline. Applications are in English and
should be sent before January 18, 2013. A detailed de-
scription of each position and the respective application
address can be found under www.idiv-biodiversity.de
Marten Winter <marten.winter@ufz.de >
LeipzigMPI ChimpanzeeMHC
PhD Position: MHC Variation in Wild Chimpanzees
A PhD position is available within the molecular
genetics group (http://www.eva.mpg.de/primat/les/-
genetics.htm) in the Primatology Department at the
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
in Leipzig, Germany. This project will use next gener-
ation sequencing of DNA from noninvasive samples to
characterize variation at multiple loci of the major his-
tocompatibility complex (MHC) in wild chimpanzees.
The degree of functional diversity in individuals will
be assessed and compared among communities, popu-
lations, and subspecies. This project does not involve
eld research, but will incorporate use of data and fecal
samples from wild chimpanzees that are the subjects of
long term observation by collaborators in the eld.28 EvolDir January 1, 2013
This position falls within the Leipzig School of Human
Origins (http://imprs.eva.mpg.de/start.html), a joint
graduate program of the University of Leipzig (Ger-
many) and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology. This program provides interdisciplinary
training and research opportunities for university grad-
uates who wish to work towards a Ph.D. in anthropol-
ogy, biology, evolutionary genetics, primatology, pale-
oanthropology and related elds. Our graduate school
is conducted in English, open for international students
and designed as a 3-year-program with a research focus
and a limited amount of formal classwork.
Qualications/Experience: We invite applications from
all countries. Applicants should have a Master's degree
before the start of the program. Candidates should
be uent in written and spoken English. Knowledge
of German is not required but international students
have the opportunity to take free German courses. For
this project a background and keen interest in molec-
ular biology laboratory analyses is an advantage and
knowledge of primates is helpful but not necessary.
Salary/funding: Ph.D. students are supported for the
duration of their PhD by tax-free stipends of approxi-
mately 15,000 Euro per year. There are no tuition fees,
and low cost health insurance is available. Leipzig is
an attractive city with readily available housing and a
relatively low cost of living.
Start Date and Applicaton process: Applicants should
follow the application process described at http:/-
/www.leipzig-school.eva.mpg.de/index.html and indi-
cate interest in this project. The application deadline
is January 31, 2012, and the planned starting date is
September 2, 2013.
Contact Information: Dr. Linda Vigilant vigi-
lant@eva.mpg.de Deutscher Platz 6 Leipzig, Saxony
04103 Germany
vigilant@eva.mpg.de
LouisianaStateU
PhylogeneticsMolecularEvolution
Ph.D. Students - Lab of Jeremy M. Brown - Louisiana
State University
Phylogenetics, Phylogeography, and Molecular Evolu-
tion
Applications for doctoral students in the lab of Dr.Jeremy M. Brown at Louisiana State University (LSU)
are now being accepted for Fall 2013 admission. Re-
search in the Brown lab is broadly centered on the
use of a phylogenetic perspective to understand or-
ganismal history and molecular evolution. We work
on both empirical and methodological questions, of-
ten involving the development of novel statistical and
computational approaches. Recent and ongoing em-
pirical work includes large-scale studies of vertebrate
phylogeny, the use of phylogenies as forensic tools in
criminal cases of HIV transmission, and investigations
into somatic diversication during tumor development.
Recent and ongoing methodological work focuses on
the development and testing of statistical approaches
for phylogenomics and the interpretation/visualization
of phylogenetic information in massive sets of trees.
Extensive opportunities exist for collaboration with
other outstanding evolutionary genetics labs at LSU
(including those of Robb Brumeld, Mike Hellberg,
Chris Austin, Dave Foltz, and Prosanta Chakrabarty
among others). An interest in programming, compu-
tation, and/or statistics is encouraged, but no specic
prior background is required. Incoming students will
join a highly collaborative and interactive group of re-
searchers: http://www.phyleaux1.lsu.edu/?q=node/8 .
Accepted students are guaranteed funding through a
mixture of research and teaching assistantships. Some
excellent fellowship opportunities are also available for
highly qualied applicants through the Louisiana Board
of Regents (http://web.laregents.org/programs/borsf-
programs/graduate-fellows/).
LSU's Dept. of Biological Sciences has a particu-
lar strength in computational evolutionary genetics.
LSU continues to invest heavily in the computational
sciences, with a recent focus on computational bi-
ology. Outstanding resources are available through
the Center for Computation and Technology (http://-
www.cct.lsu.edu/home) and the Louisiana Optical Net-
work Initiative (http://www.loni.org/).
Baton Rouge is located in South Louisiana, one of the
most culturally unique locations in the United States
(http://louisianatravel.com/). The surrounding area
has excellent food, music, festivals, and outdoor recre-
ation. LSU's campus is just over an hour's drive from
New Orleans and allows easy access to much of the Gulf
Coast.
Informal inquires are welcomed and can be sent to: jem-
brown [at] lsu.edu
For more information on applying, see: http://-
www.biology.lsu.edu/cos/biosci/GraduateProgram/-
ProspectiveStudents/item39623.html https://-
app.applyyourself.com/?id=3Dgradlsu For moreJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
information on the Brown lab, visit us on the web
at: http://www.phyleauxgenetics.org/ For more
information on LSU's Dept. of Biological Sciences,
visit: http://www.biology.lsu.edu/ jembrown@lsu.edu
MNS LouisianaStateU Malaria
GREEN BLOOD AND MALARIA PhD RESEARCH
Lab of Chris Austin - Louisiana State University
Department of Biological Sciences &
Museum of Natural Science
Lab Web page: http://www.museum.lsu.edu/Austin/-
Lab.html Ph.D. Student Wanted: I am currently seek-
ing a highly motivated student to pursue his/her PhD
working on a recently funded collaborative NSF grant
examining one of the world's most enigmatic vertebrate
physiologies (green blood). This project is in collabo-
ration with Dr. Susan Perkins, American Museum of
Natural History. Applications for doctoral students in
the lab of Dr. Chris Austin at Louisiana State Univer-
sity (LSU) are now being accepted for Fall 2013 admis-
sion.
The Project: The scincid lizards of New Guinea are a
diverse, complex and unique assemblage of lizards, rep-
resenting over 70% of the lizard fauna on this \megadi-
verse" island. Several species of New Guinea skinks
have evolved an unusual physiology - lime-green blood
and tissues, a result of accumulation of biliverdin, a bile
pigment. The adaptive signicance of hyperbiliverdism
is unknown, but two alternative hypotheses (distaste-
fulness and crypsis) have already been ruled out. Bile
pigments have been shown to be toxic to malaria para-
sites (Plasmodium), thus an anti-parasitic adaptation is
possible. Preliminary data collected by the PI's show a
trend towards reduced levels of Plasmodium infection
(and other blood parasites) in green-blooded lizards,
but an improved phylogeny of the hosts and more in-
tensive sampling of the prevalence and parasitemia of
the malaria parasites are needed to more conclusively
test this hypothesis. Thus, the goals of this project
are to conduct eldwork in Papua New Guinea and use
a large number of tissues and blood samples already
in hand to obtain better estimates of the diversity of
skinks and their malaria parasites, to describe any new
species of skinks and malaria parasites, to resolve the
phylogeny of the Melanesian species group and improve
the diagnoses of both genera and species in this cladeand then to test for patterns of parasitism in relation to
the phylogeny and the physiology of these hosts. In ad-
dition we will use new high throughput next-generation
DNA sequencing methods to sequence the genomes of
lizards with green blood and closely related lizards with
normal red blood in order to assess biomedical impor-
tant genomic and proteomic innovations related to hy-
perbiliverdinism. The research looks at the evolution
of one of the world's most exceptional vertebrate phys-
iologies in order to explore the connections between ge-
netic variation, molecular function, and disease. Un-
derstanding the genetic and proteomic adaptations of
hyperbiliverdinism will provide an expansive multidis-
ciplinary view of bile pigment physiology and will lead
to new ways to think about bile pigments and jaundice
and in doing so contribute to biomedicine and improve
human health and economic development.
The Graduate Program: Accepted students are
funded through a mixture of research, teaching,
and curatorial assistantships. Some excellent fel-
lowship opportunities are also available for highly
qualied applicants through the Louisiana Board
of Regents (http://web.laregents.org/programs/borsf-
programs/graduate-fellows/). LSU's Dept. of Biolog-
ical Sciences has a particular strength in systematics,
ecology, evolution, and computational evolutionary ge-
netics and outstanding resources are available through
the Center for Computation and Technology (http://-
www.cct.lsu.edu/home) and the Louisiana Optical Net-
work Initiative (http://www.loni.org/).
Baton Rouge is located in South Louisiana, one of the
most culturally unique locations in the United States
(http://louisianatravel.com/). The surrounding area
has excellent food, music, festivals, and outdoor recre-
ation. LSU's campus is just over an hour's drive from
New Orleans and allows easy access to much of the Gulf
Coast.
For more information on applying, see:
http://www.biology.lsu.edu/cos/biosci/-
GraduateProgram/ProspectiveStudents/-
item39623.html https://app.applyyourself.com/-
?id=3Dgradlsu For more information on LSU's Dept.
of Biological Sciences, visit:
http://www.biology.lsu.edu/ If you are potentially in-
terested, please contact me:
Christopher Austin, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences Head Curator of Amphib-
ians & Reptiles, Museum of Natural Science 119 Fos-
ter Hall Louisiana State University Baton Rouge, LA
70803-3216
e-mail: ccaustin@lsu.edu30 EvolDir January 1, 2013
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MasseyU NZ BacterialEvolution
*PhD project opportunity available to investigate the
genetics and evolution of cell shape in bacteria. *
Seeking at least one PhD student with interests in ge-
netics, evolution, and microbiology to conduct research
into the evolution of cell shape in bacteria.
*Project Description: *
The ancestral shape of extant bacterial lineages is rod-
like and most well studied bacteria today maintain this
shape or a variant of it. Rod-like cell shape optimizes
a number of important parameters that contribute to
DNA segregation, cell surface contact, surface to vol-
ume ratio and reproducibility. However, spherical bac-
teria have evolved and some of these are among our
most worrying pathogens. This trait is conveyed pri-
marily by a single protein, the actin homolog in bacte-
ria, and loss of this protein is generally extremely dele-
terious or lethal. How then have these modern micro-
bial lineages made the leap across this selective valley
to become spherical?
We are embarking on a project to elucidate this evolu-
tionary transition by recapitulating gene loss and sub-
sequent recovery of tness in a long term evolutionary
experiment. In this way we can not only uncover im-
portant genes that contribute to adaptation to spher-
ical shape but we can genetically elucidate otherwise
concealed aspects of cell biology are contingent on cell
shape.
The project emerges as a collaboration between
Dr. Paul Rainey at the New Zealand Institute
of Advanced Study and Dr. Heather Hendrickson
at the New Institute of Natural and Mathemat-
ical Sciences, both at Massey University Albany
< http://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/learning/-
departments/institute-natural-sciences/sta/heather-
hendrickson.cfm >.
*The Ideal Candidate:*
The ideal candidate will possess experience in molec-
ular genetics, genomics, evolutionary genetics and mi-crobiology. Past experience in uorescent microscopy
is helpful but not required. The successful candidate
will be motivated and organised, with a demonstrated
capacity to master the broad skill set necessary for the
successful completion of a research project. He or she
will be a competent laboratory worker, with experi-
ence of all routine molecular genetic techniques, should
be computer literate and have excellent communication
skills.
*Minimum qualications:*
B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc. in Genetics, Genomics,
Molecular Biology or Microbiology equivalent with an
A average or better.
*Scholarship Funding:*
Financial support via Massey University Institute of
Natural and Mathematical Sciences. This position is
available immediately and lasts for three years. The
studentship covers all university fees and an annual
tax-exempt stipend of NZ$25,000. Students with ex-
ceptional undergraduate marks may be eligible for
a University Scholarship which provides an increased
stipend. Additional income may also be available
from tutorial and laboratory supervision roles, although
there is no formal teaching requirement.
*Eligibility:*
Open to all nationalities. However, overseas candidates
for whom English is not a rst language must satisfy
the English Language Requirements of the University
to be eligible for study. Other international eligibility
criteria and details regarding entrance to the program
can be found in the Massey University Doctoral Study
Handbook < http://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/-
postgraduate/doctoral-study/doctoralhandbook/-
enter-programme.cfm >.
*How to Apply:*
Interested applicants are encouraged to make informal
enquiries to Dr. Heather Hendrickson. Please send
your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your academic tran-
script, a sample of your written scientic work and
the names of three referees with a covering letter to:
H.hendrickson@massey.ac.nz
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
It would be desirable if the successful applicant were
able to start in mid 2013.
Dr. Heather Hendrickson Lecturer, Evolutionary Ge-
netics New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study
Massey University Private Bag 102 904 North Shore
Mail Centre Auckland, New Zealand
W: (+64) (0)9 414 0800 xt. 41494January 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
email: H.Hendrickson@massey.ac.nz skype:
hhendrickson http://evolution.massey.ac.nz/-
rainey/heather.shtml Heather Hendrickson
<hhendrickson@gmail.com >
MaxPlanck HumanEvolution
Field assistant or PhD position
Title: Behavioral Ecology and Spatial Cognition in the
Aka hunter-gatherers Hiring organization: Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology (MPI EVAN)
Position Description: We are looking for a candidate for
a project on the spatial cognition and knowledge of the
Aka hunter-gatherers of the Central African Republic.
The project will be carried out in the broader frame
of improving our understanding of the natural spatial
skills requires for foraging in the tropical forest ecol-
ogy of modern hunter-gatherers. This project is a joint
collaborative project of Christophe Boesch with Barry
Hewlett of Vancouver (USA). The candidate will be
primary responsible of mapping food resources in the
Aka territory and follow individuals during their daily
forays in the forest.
Work Schedule: - Preparation: approximately 2 weeks
at the MPI EVAN - Data collection: First eld trip of
4 months in CAR is planned but is dependent upon the
progress of the data collection. - Analysis at the MPI
EVAN
Qualications/Requirements: MSc (or comparable de-
gree) in Behavioral Ecology or Anthropology. Sound
eld experience in the tropics, botanical knowledge, de-
veloped experience with GIS and GPS techniques will
be favored. The eld work requires good physical con-
dition, the ability to work independently and under re-
mote conditions. Good French speaking abilities are
required. If the qualication is there and the rst eld
experience is completed to satisfaction, a Ph.D. on spa-
tial cognition in the Aka hunter-gatherer could be en-
visioned.
Salary/funding: The candidate will be supported by a
stipend.
Terms of Appointment: Initially for 6 months
Comments: Applications including a cover letter stat-
ing research experience and interests, detailed curricu-
lum vitae, and the names and e-mail addresses of two
referees should be sent electronically. The evaluationprocess will start immediately and applications will be
accepted until position is lled.
Contact Information: Christophe Boesch
boesch@eva.mpg.de www.eva.mpg.de/primat -
Assistant to Prof. Christophe Boesch -
Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Department of Primatology Deutscher Platz No 6 D-
04103 Leipzig / Germany
e-mail nebel@eva.mpg.de phone ++49 (0) 341
3550 200 fax ++49 (0) 341 3550 299 Internet
http://www.eva.mpg.de/primat/ Save the Great
Apes! Sign mAn: http://www.apesmanifesto.org
Wild Chimpanzee Foundation: www.wildchimps.org
Bonobo Alive: www.bonobo-alive.org Orang Utans
in Not: www.orang-utans-in-not.org Claudia Nebel
<nebel@eva.mpg.de >
MichiganStateU BEACON
*BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion*
*BEACON Top-Up Fellowships for New Graduate Stu-
dents*
**BEACON is an NSF Science and Technology Cen-
ter headquartered at Michigan State University with
partners at North Carolina A&T State University, Uni-
versity of Idaho, University of Texas at Austin, and
University of Washington. BEACON brings together
biologists, computer scientists, and engineers to study
evolutionary dynamics using biological and computa-
tional techniques and to apply evolutionary principles
to engineering problems. We seek outstanding PhD stu-
dents to pursue interdisciplinary research on evolution
in action with BEACON faculty members, in the elds
of biology, computer science, and/or engineering.
As part of BEACON's eorts to recruit a high qual-
ity, diverse graduate student population, we are oer-
ing top-up fellowships to doctoral students accepted at
Michigan State University who are interested in partic-
ipating in BEACON research. To be eligible for these
fellowships, a student must be nominated by a prospec-
tive adviser who is a participating BEACON faculty
member. Please see our website (http://www.beacon-
center.org) for more information about the center and
for a list of participating faculty members.
/Eligibility:/ Top-Up Recruiting Fellowships can be32 EvolDir January 1, 2013
used to support applicants to Ph.D. programs in all de-
partments at MSU that conduct research in this area,
with preference given to applicants who are citizens or
permanent residents of the US. *Any applicant nomi-
nated for a Top-Up Recruiting Fellowship must be nom-
inated by a BEACON faculty member. *In addition,
the applicant must receive a 5-year support commit-
ment from the faculty member and/or department or
university. BEACON strongly encourages faculty to
nominate women, students from underrepresented mi-
norities, and persons with disabilities.
/Top-Up Recruiting Fellowship Details: /If an appli-
cant is awarded a BEACON Top-Up Recruiting Fel-
lowship, they will receive between $3,000 and $5,000 in
additional fellowship funds for each year they partici-
pate in BEACON activities, for up to a maximum of ve
years. If the applicant receives an NSF or other similar
fellowship already providing $30,000 or more in annual
support, BEACON will oer a one-time fellowship sup-
plement of $5,000 for the duration of that fellowship.
/Requirements:/ Students receiving this fellowship will
be required to take two BEACON-related courses dur-
ing their rst year: one course on either evolutionary bi-
ology or computational evolution (whichever is not part
of the student's background) during Fall Semester 2013,
and one project course where students work in interdis-
ciplinary groups during Spring Semester 2014. This re-
quirement is to support BEACON's goal of encouraging
students to pursue multi-disciplinary research. These
courses are normally included in the student's academic
program.
/To apply:/ Prospective students cannot apply directly
for a fellowship and must be nominated by a faculty
member. Prospective students should indicate their in-
terest in participating in BEACON when applying to
a graduate program at Michigan State University, and
discuss their interest with a participating faculty mem-
ber. Participating departments include: Zoology, Mi-
crobiology and Molecular Genetics, Computer Science
and Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineer-
ing, Mechanical Engineering, Plant Biology, Fisheries
& Wildlife, and others.
{ Danielle J. Whittaker, Ph.D. Managing Director
BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion 567 Wilson Road, Room 1441E Michigan State
University East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 884-2561
djwhitta@msu.edu http://beacon-center.org \Danielle
J. Whittaker" <djwhitta@msu.edu >Portland PlantEvolution
*Graduate position: Landscape genetics of plants*
We are looking to recruit graduate students (Ms or
PhD) interested in plant ecological genetics and will-
ing to participate in the development of methods in
landscape genetics for the analysis of dispersal among
plant populations.
*Why study landscape genetics? *
The development of methods for the analysis of popula-
tion genetic dierentiation in the context of landscape
features has provided insights into ecological processes
such as dispersal. Plant species present unique oppor-
tunities and challenges for landscape genetic analyses,
as the behavior of their associated biotic and abiotic
dispersal vectors as well as the distribution of suitable
habitat may aect patterns of genetic variation. Under-
standing how landscape features may facilitate or limit
the dispersal of plants is particularly critical as climate
change aects the distribution of suitable habitat.
*What are we looking for? *
An ideal candidate will have experience with laboratory
assays and data analyses for genetic markers, GIS anal-
yses, and eld ecological methods or some combination
of the above; however, these are not strict requirements,
and candidates with an interest in the topic and eager-
ness to learn are encouraged to apply.
*Interested? *
Please send a copy of your CV, as well as a letter of
introduction to Cruzan@pdx.edu that includes a brief
statement of your background, research interests and
your academic record, including GPA and GRE scores
(if available).
cruzan@pdx.edu
PortlandStateU EvolGeneticsPlants
Graduate position: Landscape genetics of plants
The development of methods for the analysis of pop-
ulation genetic dierentiation in the context of land-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
scape features has provided insights into ecological pro-
cesses such as dispersal.Plant species present unique op-
portunities and challenges for landscape genetic anal-
yses, as the behavior of their associated biotic and
abiotic dispersal vectors as well as the distribution of
suitable habitat may aect patterns of genetic varia-
tion.Understanding how landscape features may facili-
tate or limit the dispersal of plants is particularly crit-
ical as climate change aects the distribution of suit-
able habitat.We are looking to recruit graduate stu-
dents (Ms or PhD) interested in plant ecological ge-
netics and willing to participate in the development of
methods in landscape genetics for the analysis of dis-
persal among plant populations.Experience with lab-
oratory assays and data analyses for genetic markers,
GIS analyses, and eld ecological methods would be
benecial but not necessary.If interested, please send a
letter of introduction to Cruzan@pdx.edu that includes
a brief statement of your background and your aca-
demic record, including GPA and GRE scores if avail-
able.Please include an essay outlining your research in-
terests and a recent copy of your CV.
Mitch Cruzan, Associate Professor of Biology, Portland
State University, Portland, OR
cruzan@pdx.edu
QueensU Belfast
InsectImmunityEvolution
Competition funded PhD position at Queen's Univer-
sity Belfast
Mother knows best: transgenerational immunity in in-
sects
Supervisors: Dr Sheena Cotter, Dr Nikki Clayton
(Queen's University Belfast)
Dr Archie Murchie (AFBI)
Parasites and pathogens are ubiquitous, and the abil-
ity to ght o infection is key to an organism's tness.
However, in addition to this personal immunity, some
immune responses are produced for the benet of oth-
ers (social immunity). One example of social immunity
is the ability of a parent to transfer immunity to its
ospring. This has long been known in mammals (e.g.
antibodies in milk), but has recently been found also to
occur in insects, which provide a much more tractable
system for answering questions regarding the evolution
of this trait. Burying beetles show elaborate parentalcare, which includes protecting the breeding resource
for their ospring with antibacterial secretions - a form
of social immunity. It is known that these secretions are
costly (Cotter et al 2010) and that they trade-o with
the personal immune response (Cotter et al, In Press),
but whether these two types of immunity (personal and
social) can be transferred to ospring, and under which
environmental conditions this is likely to occur have yet
to be investigated.
The aim of this PhD studentship is to understand un-
der which circumstances either personal or social im-
mune responses can be transmitted to ospring, and
whether this occurs pre- or post-hatching. The student
will combine eld studies, to ascertain the parasites and
pathogens aecting burying beetles in the wild, with
lab manipulations of parasitism in parents, to deter-
mine the eects on ospring.
Training
The student will receive training in:
* Insect rearing, collection and pedigrees
* Parasite assays
* Immunity assays
* Statistical analysis
Applications
Application procedure:
Informal enquiries to Dr Sheena Cotter, Tel: 028
90972691, Email: s.cotter@qub.ac.uk
Application via Queen's applications portal: https://-
dap.qub.ac.uk/portal/user/u login.php Eligibility
The DEL studentship (equivalent to a NERC stu-
dentship) is available in full to UK students and on a
fees-only basis to EU students. Students from outside
the EU are not eligible for funding.
Please see http://go.qub.ac.uk/delterms for further in-
formation regarding eligibility.
Sheena Cotter NERC Fellow/Proleptic Lecturer in
Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics
School of Biological Sciences Queen's University Belfast
Medical Biology Centre 97 Lisburn Rd Belfast BT9 7BL
Tel: 028 9097 2691 Fax: 028 9097 5877 Email:
s.cotter@qub.ac.uk Webpage: http://www.qub.ac.uk/-
schools/SchoolofBiologicalSciences/Sta/-
DrSCCotter/ Sheena Cotter <s.cotter@qub.ac.uk >34 EvolDir January 1, 2013
RutgersU ViralPhylogenetics
Rutgers University, Viral evolution/Phylogenetics
The Duy lab (http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~siobain/)
at Rutgers University is recruiting a PhD student to
work on an NSF-funded project aimed at assembling
the tree of life for circular, eukaryotic single-stranded
DNA viruses. This group of ssDNA viruses contains
emergent crop and livestock pathogens, and has been
historically undersampled in viral metagenomes.
The ideal candidate will be a motivated, curious scien-
tist with a strong interest in phylogenetics, systematics
and microbiology. Regardless of undergraduate major,
s/he should have a background in evolution or micro-
biology, and have previous wet or dry laboratory ex-
perience. The student could matriculate through the
graduate program in Ecology and Evolution, Microbial
Biology, or Microbiology and Molecular Genetics. The
student could start in the Fall of 2013 or in 2014.
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, is a lead-
ing national public research university. New Brunswick
is within an hours drive of New York City and beaches
on the Atlantic Ocean, and within a 90 minute drive of
Philadelphia and the Appalachian Trail. New Jersey is
one of the most ethnically diverse states, with over 20%
of the population having immigrated to the US.
Any queries should be addressed to Siobain Duy
(duy@aesop.rutgers.edu), and should include a cur-
rent CV (as a .pdf). Candidates from all backgrounds
are encouraged to apply.
Siobain Duy <duy@AESOP.Rutgers.edu >
SUNY Binghamton Evolutionary
Genetics
SUNY Binghamton.Evolutionary Genetics
Graduate Student Position in Evolutionary Genetics of
Insect Reproduction
A graduate student position (Ph.D.) is available in An-
thony Fiumera's lab to study insect reproduction us-
ing the model genetic system, Drosophila melanogaster.We have two research projects ongoing. One project
is focused on genetic interactions between males and
females that inuence pre-and post-copulatory sexual
selection. Another project is aimed at studying the ef-
fects of environmental toxicants on insect reproduction
and will focus on identifying genes that inuence sus-
ceptibility to these toxicants.
I am looking for bright and dedicated students that
want to join a vibrant research lab and learn a combina-
tion of skills in evolutionary genetics, molecular biology
and/or computational biology. Financial aid may be
available for highly qualied applicants through either
Research Assistantships or Graduate Teaching Assis-
tantships. Please visit my website for more information
on the lab.
http://bingweb.binghamton.edu/ ~ aumera/-
home.html Binghamton University is a doctoral
granting campus in the SUNY (State University of
New York) system and is consistently ranked as one
of the top 50 public universities in the nation by U.S.
News & World Reports. Located in the Southern Tier
of upstate New York, Binghamton University oers
quick access to a variety of outdoor activities yet is
only a few hours away from both New York City and
Philadelphia.
If you are interested please contact Anthony Fiumera:
aumera@binghamton.edu
aumera@gmail.com
SanFranciscoStateU
SalamanderEvolution
TITLE: SFSU graduate student (M.S.) positions in
salamander behavior and disease ecology
CONTENT: Two graduate student (M.S.) positions are
available, including two years of stipend and tuition re-
mission, in the Department of Biology at San Francisco
State University. These students will be co-advised by
Andy Zink and Vance Vredenburg and work directly on
a project investigating the relationships between com-
munal nesting in Batrachoseps salamanders and the
spread of fungal pathogens. Students will be expected
to combine laboratory work (sampling museum speci-
mens, quantitative PCR) with eld work on salamander
behavior and ecology throughout California. Interested
students should email their CV, unocial transcripts,
and GRE scores to Andy Zink at <zink@sfsu.edu >withJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
SALAMANDER POSITION (MS) in the subject line
of the email.
Andrew G. Zink Assistant Professor of Biology San
Francisco State University
http://online.sfsu.edu/zink/ http://biology.sfsu.edu/-
people/andrew-zink Andrew Zink <zink@sfsu.edu >
Spain PlantEvolutionaryEcology
The research group on Population Genetics and Evo-
lution at INIA-CIFOR (Madrid, Spain) is searching
highly motivated graduate students with interests in
forest genetics and evolutionary biology. **
Erasmus Mundus scholarships have opened a call on
Mediterranean Forestry and Natural Resources. The
call is linked to a PhD program on Sustainable Forest
Management at Valladolid University (location in Pa-
lencia, Spain) of the Sustainable Forest Management
Research Institute.
Interested students should apply for a grant within this
program,
http://www.medfor.eu/howtoapply/schollarships We
oer at least one PhD thesis in the framework
of a national-funding project and an EU project
(Trees4Future).
The project is centered in the intra-specic variation
and plasticity of life history traits in pines and trade-
os between reproduction and growth, defenses and
stress tolerance. The ultimate target is to understand
the evolutionary processes related to wild populations
adaptation to varying stress (both abiotic and biotic)
and perturbation regimes and inferring the possibilities
to adapt to future environmental challenges by shifting
resources between developmental processes.
The PhD student will be oriented by Dr. Jos e Cli-
ment in close collaboration with Drs. R. Al a and JJ.
Robledo-Arnuncio from INIA-CIFOR and Drs.Rafael
Zas from MBG-CSIC and Jordi Voltas from Univ. of
Lleida, (Univ of Lleida also participates in Erasmus
Mundus Medfor). Further collaborations with top Eu-
ropean scientists in forest genetics and evolution will be
encouraged.
More info about the Sustainable Forest Management
Research Institute
http://sostenible.palencia.uva.es/default.aspx Briefdescription of Jose Climent research activity:
http://wwwsp.inia.es/Investigacion/centros/-
CIFOR/departamentos/ecofor/personalgenetica/-
Documents/cv%20J%20CLIMENT.pdf or https://-
sites.google.com/site/climentjm/ Students interested
please send a CV and contact Jose Climent ( cli-
ment@inia.es).
*Deadline for applying Erasmus Mundus Medfor grants
is Januray 15 2013*.
Luis Santos <luisaemf@gmail.com >
StLouisU EvolutionaryGenomics
Ph.D. position in Evolutionary Genomics - Saint Louis
University
A Ph.D. position is available in Claudio Casola's lab
at Saint Louis University. We are mainly interested
in understanding the evolution of genes and genomes
in model and non-model eukaryotes using computa-
tional and statistic approaches. Current research in-
terests in the lab include gene duplication and gene
deletion, comparative and population genomics of al-
lelic and interlocus gene conversion, and the origin of
genomic novelties from transposable elements. More
details on active projects in the lab are available on-
line at https://sites.google.com/a/slu.edu/ccasola I am
seeking bright and highly motivated students interested
in learning a combination of skills in molecular evolu-
tion, computational biology and genomics. New stu-
dents in the Department of Biology are generally sup-
ported on TAs, with funding priority to PhD students.
Interested applicants are strongly encouraged to con-
tact Claudio Casola (ccasola@slu.edu) as soon as pos-
sible: openings and funding are available through Jan-
uary 10. However, interested persons should contact
me after this deadline to enquire for possible openings.
For more information about the Biology Graduate Pro-
gram please visit https://sites.google.com/a/slu.edu/-
biology-graduate-program/home Saint Louis Univer-
sity is home to a vibrant community of scholars and a
highly diverse student body, and is consistently ranked
as one of the top 100 universities in the nation. Saint
Louis combines an aordable life-style with an energetic
community of students from four large universities. The
city is experiencing a large-scale ongoing revitalization,
and is renowned for the numerous parks and the vari-
ety of free attractions, including a world-class zoo and
botanical garden, the Art and the History Museums,36 EvolDir January 1, 2013
and the Science Center.
Claudio Casola, Ph.D. St. Louis University As-
sistant Professor Department of Biology Macelwane
Hall, Room 208 Phone: (314) 977-3909 Fax: (314)
977-3658 ccasola@slu.edu https://sites.google.com/a/-
slu.edu/ccasola/ ccasola@slu.edu
TexasTechU
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
GRADUATE POSITIONS (PHD & MS) IN PLANT
ECOLOGICAL GENETICS AT TEXAS TECH UNI-
VERSITY
Graduate student training positions supported
by teaching and research assistantships are avail-
able to work in plant ecological genetics in the
Olson lab at Texas Tech University (http://-
www.faculty.biol.ttu.edu/olson/Welcome.html).
Students interested in applying experimental or
molecular approaches to questions in any aspect of
plant ecological genetics are invited to apply. Our
lab is currently focused on understanding the genetic
basis and evolutionary mechanisms governing local
adaptation, especially in relation to the evolution of
plant breeding systems and traits likely important for
adaptation to climate regimes including drought, cold,
and latitude. Interested students should contact Matt
Olson directly at <matt.olson@ttu.edu >to discuss
mutual interests and instructions on how to apply.
Students applying before the end of January will be
assured full consideration.
\Olson, Matt" <matt.olson@ttu.edu >
TrentU ConservationGenetics
MSc POSITION in conservation genetics in the Envi-
ronmental and Life Sciences Graduate Program, Trent
University, Canada.
Project description: Eastern owering dogwood (Cor-
nus orida L.) is a small understorey tree native to the
Carolinian forests in southern Ontario. It provides a
valuable food source for mammals, birds, and inverte-
brates, and plays an important role in nutrient cycling.Eastern owering dogwood has been classied as endan-
gered in Ontario, largely because populations are being
decimated by anthracnose fungus. Using a combination
of eld and lab work, the objective of this project is to
quantify population genetic parameters of this species
(genetic diversity, inbreeding, gene ow), search for pos-
sible sources of resistant trees, and contribute to the
ongoing mapping of infected trees. This project will be
done in collaboration with personnel from the Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Qualications: BSc or similar degree. Previous expe-
rience in eld work and genetic lab work an asset, but
not essential.
How to apply: Application should include (1) a letter
stating why the applicant should be considered a strong
candidate for the position, (2) a CV, (3) names, with
e-mail addresses and telephone numbers, of two refer-
ees, and (4) any other documents that the applicant
deems relevant. Please send enquiries or applications
to joannafreeland@trentu.ca .
Joanna Freeland Dept. of Biology Trent University
http://people.trentu.ca/joannafreeland/ Joanna Free-
land<joannafreeland@trentu.ca >
TulaneU AvianSystematics
PhD student opportunity in avian systematics
Funding is available for a Ph.D. student to study
the diversication of the pantropical radiation of su-
boscine birds (Aves: Tyranni) in the Derryberry lab
(elizabethderryberry.tulane.edu) in the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Tulane Univer-
sity. This position is part of an NSF funded, multi-
institutional collaboration (LSU, AMNH, Smithsonian,
KU, and MPEG), so the successful student will be
joining a highly collaborative and productive research
team.
Project aims include (1) generating a species-level phy-
logeny of the 1000+ suboscine species using genomic
approaches and (2) subsequent analyses intended to
improve understanding of diversication in large radi-
ations. The Derryberry lab also has a strong interest
in the tempo and mode of behavioral evolution. Stu-
dents interested in exploring these types of questions
in a phylogenetic context are strongly encouraged to
apply.
The successful candidate will have a proven capacityJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
for writing and communication, excellent interpersonal
skills, and strong quantitative skills (e.g. computer
programming, bioinformatics). Salary and benets are
competitive.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter,
CV, GPA and GRE scores, and a statement
of professional goals to Dr. Elizabeth Derry-
berry (ederrybe@tulane.edu) as well as apply to
the degree program (http://tulane.edu/sse/eebio/-
academics/graduate/apply.cfm). **Applications are
due January 15, 2013**
Tulane University is an Armative Action/Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Employer. Women and minori-
ties are strongly encouraged to apply.
Elizabeth Derryberry, Ph.D. Assistant Professor De-
partment of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Tulane
University New Orleans, LA 70118 504-862-8285 (of-
ce) 504-862-8706 (fax) elizabethderryberry.tulane.edu
ederrybe@tulane.edu
UAlberta
EvolutionInfectiousDiseases
A graduate research position (MSc or PhD*) *is avail-
able in Dr. Lien Luongs research group (http:/-
/www.biology.ualberta.ca/faculty/lien luong/) at the
University of Alberta. Students interested in the ecol-
ogy and evolution of infectious diseases and/or parasite-
host interactions are encouraged to apply.
Pathogenic organisms that are harmless under certain
conditions can suddenly become extremely harmful un-
der dierent circumstances. Indeed levels of parasitism
vary continuously in nature, with some species shift-
ing along a continuum from benign to pathogenic over
ecological and evolutionary time. But even more fun-
damental to this issue is the process by which para-
sitism evolved. One of our goals is to investigate the
life-history evolution of parasites that express variation
in host exploitation strategies, and identify the selec-
tion pressures that lead to the transition to a para-
sitic lifestyle. Facultative parasites present a unique
and interesting opportunity for addressing these ques-
tions because they regularly shift from free-living to
parasitic lifestyles. The facultative ectoparasitic mite,
Macrocheles subbadius feeds and reproduces on highly
ephemeral habitats. However, mites become parasitic
under certain circumstances by attaching to and feed-ing on Drosophila* *fruit y hosts. Using this study
system, the student will experimentally investigate the
ecological factors and evolutionary changes that lead to
increased infectivity.
The Department of Biological Sciences at U of A is
one of the largest and most scientically diverse de-
partments of its kind in Canada. We oer research-
orientated, thesis-based graduate programs at both the
MSc and PhD levels. Study programs are tailored in-
dividually to graduate student needs and emphasize
interdisciplinary thinking. All students accepted into
our MSc program have guaranteed funding for at least
2.3 years, at the rate of approximately $22,680/year.
Teaching training is provided and is mandatory for all
students on graduate teaching assistantships. With
~270 graduate students, >70 full-time faculty, excel-
lent support facilities and ample research funding, a
vibrant and exciting learning environment is provided.
For more information about applying to the graduate
program: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/programs/-
graduate/prospective/ Highly motivated and indepen-
dent students interested in developing their own re-
search ideas are also encouraged to apply. If you know
of an exceptional student who might be interested,
please forward this information onto him/her. To ap-
ply, please send a brief (max. 1 page) explanation of
your research experience and interests, a copy of your
curriculum vitae, and names and contact information
for 3 references. Email the above as a single .pdf le to
lluong@ualberta.ca. Review of applications will begin
February 1, 2013. The ideal start date is September
2013. For more information, please contact Dr. Lien
Luong ( lluong@ualberta.ca).
Lien Luong <lluong@ualberta.ca >
UAntwerp
EvolutionaryEcologyBirdParasites
Doctoral student in Ecology Evolutionary Ecology of
nest-parasite communities in cavity-nesting birds
Despite the multitude of studies on nestbox-breeding
birds, surprisingly little attention has been paid to host-
parasite interactions, and to nest parasites in partic-
ular. Moreover, most studies have focused on single
parasite species without considering interactions among
dierent parasite species or factors governing parasite
diversity. Aside from their relevance to their bird hosts,
nest parasites can also be studied as ecological com-38 EvolDir January 1, 2013
munities in their own right. Thanks to their highly
standardized conditions and amenability to eld exper-
iments with a high degree of spatial replication, nest-
boxes can be regarded as semi-natural mesocosms that
can be used for investigating topics such as interspe-
cic interactions, dispersal and environmental gradients
such as urbanization. The present project originated as
part of an inter-university, multi-taxon research project
on eco-evolutionary dynamics along a single urbaniza-
tion gradient in Belgium, including communities rang-
ing from birds to plants to aquatic zooplankton. The
project is also embedded in a long-term research pro-
gramme on population dynamics and evolutionary ecol-
ogy of cavity-nesting birds.
The specic objectives of this PhD project are (1) to
describe variation in species richness, community struc-
ture and functional diversity of parasites and commen-
sal species inhabiting nests of great tits (Parus major)
along an urbanization gradient in Belgium; (2) to study
the impact of parasite communities on host tness, us-
ing demographic data collected in an ongoing popula-
tion study; (3) to study how prevalence and abundance
of parasite species are aected by ecological interactions
within the nest (competition, mutualism, predation)
and how these interactions vary along the urbanization
gradient; and (4) to analyze the potential for evolution-
ary change along this gradient by studying variation
at genotypic (using neutral markers) and phenotypic
level (life history traits, virulence- and dispersal-related
traits) for one or more parasite species.
Prole and requirements
* You hold a Master degree in Biology or comparable
with a strong background in ecology and evolutionary
biology;
* You can submit outstanding academic results; * You
have a solid training in both uni- and multivariate sta-
tistical analysis; * Experience with parasite research,
entomology and/or community ecology is an advantage;
We oer
* A doctoral scholarship for a period of two years, with
the possibility of renewal for a further two-year period
after positive evaluation;
* The starting date of the scholarship will be April 1st
2013;
* You will enrol in the Antwerp Doctoral School train-
ing program (www.ua.ac.be/ads) allowing you to take
part in various courses, training programs and confer-
ences within and outside the university;
* You will work in a team of several PhD students, post-
docs and technical sta involved in eco-evolutionary re-search on birds and bird parasites;
* You will be member of the Evolutionary Ecology
group, a dynamic and internationally-oriented research
group that combines eld, lab and modelling ap-
proaches to study various questions in ecological and
evolutionary research, mainly focusing on birds and
mammals (www.ua.ac.be/eveco).
Interested?
* Applicants should send their complete CV, a one-page
statement of research interests and motivation for this
project, and contact information of two referees who
can supply letters of recommendation upon our request
* Applications should be submitted by email to Prof.
Erik Matthysen at erik.matthysen@ua.ac.be until the
closing date: 20 January 2013
* For more information, contact Erik Matthysen at the
same email adress or at (+32) 3265 3464
The University of Antwerp strives to contribute to an
open, democratic and multi-cultural society. We follow
an equal-opportunity policy.
erik.matthysen@ua.ac.be
UArkansas Diatom Genomics
PhD positions in the Department of Biological Sciences
at the University of Arkansas are available beginning in
Fall 2013. Research topics center around the phylogeny,
systematics, and evolutionary and ecological genomics
of diatoms. Students will be encouraged to develop in-
dependent research projects in any of these areas. De-
scriptions of several ongoing projects are available here:
http://alverson.openwetware.org/Research.html . The
University of Arkansas has a highly diverse, vibrant and
rapidly growing student body. The main Fayetteville
campus is located in the heart of the beautiful Ozark
Mountains, which oer countless outdoor recreational
opportunities, including hiking, backpacking, mountain
biking, and kayaking.
Interested applicants should contact Andy Alverson
(aja@uark.edu) before applying. Applicants must meet
graduate admission requirements, and highly quali-
ed candidates with a Masters degree are eligible for
Distinguished Doctoral Fellows (DDF) and Doctoral
Academy Fellows (DAF). DDFs have a salary range
of $30,000V$35,000 for a 12-month stipend, and the
DAFs have a range of $20,000V$25,000 for a 12-monthJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
stipend. Additional information, including require-
ments and deadlines for these opportunities, can be
found at http://biology.uark.edu/1255.htm and http:/-
/grad.uark.edu/future/funding/index.php. Informa-
tion on how to apply to the Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences can be found at http://biology.uark.edu/-
1251.htm. The deadline for graduate applications for
Fall 2013 admission is January 15, 2013.
Andrew Alverson University of Arkansas Department
of Biological Sciences 1 University of Arkansas, SCEN
601 Fayetteville, AR 72701-1201
oce: 479-575-7975 lab: 479-575-4886
http://alverson.openwetware.org/ Andrew James
Alverson <aja@uark.edu >
UAuckland EvolutionCognition
Project title: The Genetics of Complex Cognition
We are seeking a PhD student with interests in ethol-
ogy, evolution, behavioural ecology and genetics to con-
duct research into the genetic basis of complex cogni-
tion in tool-using New Caledonian crows. The 3- year
project is part of a new Marsden grant led by Dr Gavin
Hunt (Auckland), in collaboration with Profs Neil Gem-
mell (Otago) and Russell Gray (Auckland). The PhD
position will be based in the Language, Cognition and
Culture lab at the University of Auckland led by Prof.
Gray.
Project description: The discovery of complex avian
cognitive abilities has revolutionized our understanding
of the evolution of intelligence. However, the genetic
basis of these abilities is unknown. One possibility is
that numerous changes in genes across a wide range
of functional domains are required for the evolution
of complex intelligence. Alternatively, only a limited
number of genetic tweaks might be required. The New
Caledonian crow oers a highly suitable model to inves-
tigate the genetics of complex cognition. This species
has a remarkable tool-using lifestyle and manufactures
the most sophisticated tools made by nonhuman ani-
mals. In contrast, the NC crow's close Corvus relatives
do not use tools. Furthermore, distinct local variation
exists in NC crows' tool skills that is potentially asso-
ciated with phenotypic as well as cultural dierences.
This exciting multi- disciplinary project combines ge-
netics and behavioural ecology to search for genes that
underpin a tool-using lifestyle.The successful candidate will assist in the collection of
genetic samples in the southwest pacic outside New
Caledonia. The main focus of the student will be eld-
work on the island of Grande Terre, New Caledonia.
This work will involve documenting variation in the tool
behaviour of NC crows across selected sites, in combi-
nation with catching and banding birds and collecting
blood samples from them.
Essential qualities for the position. 1. A minimum of
First Class or 2.1 Honours Degree in a relevant subject
area 2. Proven skill and enthusiasm for eldwork 3.
Condence at handling birds and a willingness to learn
avian blood collection techniques 4. Ability and will-
ingness to live and work for extended periods in trop-
ical conditions under challenging eld conditions (e.g.,
working alone, research in remote rainforest sites, dif-
cult weather conditions) 5. A basic level of conversa-
tional French and a willingness to learn the language 6.
A valid driving licence and proven driving skills 7. An
ability to obtain a temporary resident visa for research
in New Caledonia (French overseas territory)
Funding: The PhD position and associated fees are
fully funded by the Marsden grant.
How to Apply: Informal pre-submission enquiries to
Prof. Russell Gray and Dr. Gavin Hunt are welcome.
Please send your formal submission of Curriculum Vi-
tae, academic transcript, a sample of your written scien-
tic work, the names of three referees and a cover letter
to: Prof. Russell Gray: Email: rd.gray@auckland.ac.nz
Dr. Gavin Hunt: Email: g.hunt@auckland.ac.nz
Further information: See the 'Cognition and culture
in New Caledonian crows' website at the Univer-
sity of Auckland for general information about our
research on New Caledonian crows and a list of
publications. See also the websites of Prof. Gem-
mell's genetics laboratory at the University of Otago
and the Centre for Reproduction and Genomics
http://www.psych.auckland.ac.nz/nc-crows http://-
gemmell-lab.otago.ac.nz/ http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
crg/sta/otago019504.html Applications close on the
31/1/2013.
Dr Gavin Hunt
School of Psychology, University of Auckland, Private
Bag 92019, Auckland 1142, New Zealand.
Tel - general: (+64) 09 373-7599; Tel - DDI: (+64) 09
923-4790; Fax: (+64) 09 373-7450
Our crow web site: http://www.psych.auckland.ac.nz/-
nc-crows grhunt10@hotmail.com40 EvolDir January 1, 2013
UBielefeld EvolutionaryBehaviour
Social behaviour of shorebird populations in Madagas-
car: behaviour, demography and genetics
PhD studentship (3 years), Bielefeld University (Ger-
many) & University of Bath (UK)
Supervisors: Prof. Oliver Kr uger, Dr. Joe Homan
and Prof. Tam as Sz ekely
Mating systems and parental behaviour are among the
most diverse social behaviours, and recent works sug-
gest that the social environment inuences these be-
haviours. Small plovers (Charadrius spp.) exhibit
monogamous and polygynous breeding systems and
some of this variation appear to relate to sex ratios.
The objective of the studentship is to carry out eld-
work in three plover populations in Madagascar, and
using molecular genetic analysis together with demo-
graphic modelling, test whether breeding systems are
inuenced by the social environment.
We seek a bright and motivated student with strong in-
terests in evolutionary ecology and behavioural ecology.
Willingness to carry out eldwork in a harsh tropical
environment is essential for this position. The student
will search for nests, trap birds and take blood samples
and record their behaviour. In addition, he/she will use
molecular genetic methods to test hypotheses of mat-
ing system evolution, and develop demographic models
to estimate key demographic properties of natural pop-
ulations. Previous experience with avian eld biology,
statistical modelling and/or microsatellite genotyping
is advantageous. Strong quantitative skills are essen-
tial, and willingness to programme is a must.
Fieldwork will be in a remote and pristine location in
SW Madagascar. Commodities are extremely basic,
the weather can be very harsh, and a great deal of
walking and cycling are required. Opportunities for
outside communication are very limited. You must be
physically t, hard-working and meticulous, and have
a proven ability to work independently. You must have
a positive attitude and an ability to look after your-
self (i.e. cook your own meals, deal with logistics and
organise your own work over extended periods).
The student will be based at the Department of
Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/(en)/biologie/vhf/index.html). The De-
partment oers a stimulating international environmentand an excellent research infrastructure with access to
state-of-the-art techniques. The working language of
the Department is English. The student will also spend
some of his/her time at the Biodiversity Laboratory
at the University of Bath (www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/-
biodiversity-lab/index.htm).
This studentship (E13/65%) is funded by the Ger-
man Science Foundation (DFG) and is available for
3 years. Full funding is available for eldwork and
for attending conferences. Please send your CV,
the name of 2 referees, and a concise statement
of your research interests as a single PDF le to:
oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de. For further informa-
tion concerning this studentship, please contact Oliver
Kr uger (oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de), Joe Homan
(joseph.homan@uni-bielefeld.de) or Tam as Sz ekely
(bssts@bath.ac.uk).
The University of Bielefeld is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. We welcome applications from severely hand-
icapped people. We particularly welcome applications
from women. Given equal suitability, qualications and
professional achievement, women will be given prefer-
ence, unless particular circumstances pertaining to a
male applicant predominate.
The deadline for applications is Friday 25 January 2013.
Interviews will be held in early February and the posi-
tion is available as soon as possible.
Joe Homan Department of Animal Behaviour Univer-
sity of Bielefeld
Postfach 100131
33501 Bielefeld
Germany
+49 (0)521 1062711 http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/vhf/JH/index.html j ihoman@hotmail.com
UCanberra LandscapeGenetics
PhD Opportunity Available at the University of Can-
berra
Landscape genetics in the Murray-Darling Basin.
We are seeking expressions of interest from suitably
qualied students (rst class honours or equivalent
demonstrated through publication) to conduct research
on the landscape genetics of selected freshwater taxa
of the Murray-Darling Basin. Research opportunitiesJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
present themselves are several spatial and temporal
scales. The project(s) will use nuclear DNA markers
generated on NextGen sequencing platforms to inves-
tigate ne scale population structure in the context of
contemporary inuences on dispersal, such as dams and
weirs, at a local scale and historical inuences at the re-
gional scale.
The project scope at the local scale will centre on the
upper Murray, and the impact of dams and weirs in
the Dartmouth/Hume/Yarrawonga/Torrumbarry stor-
age complex and associated regulated (Broken) and un-
regulated (Ovens) tributaries of the Murray River. The
project scope at the regional scale will focus on the
MDB and adjacent central and coastal drainage basins
to explore the historical phylogeography of selected in-
stream taxa. Concordant patterns of genetic substruc-
turing will be mapped against a bio-georegionalisation
developed in other CRN projects.
Taxa identied as suitable on the basis of (a) life history
and dispersal attributes, (b) widespread distribution
and (c) preliminary evidence of genetic substructuring
within the basin are: the Australian Smelt (Retropinna
semoni), Murray Turtle (Emydura macquarii), Com-
mon Yabby (Cherax destructor) and the Giant River
Prawn (Macrobrachium australiense).
Molecular markers will be developed using RADSeq or
related approaches on the Illumina sequencing platform
to generate panels of informative SNP markers in non-
model organisms, so interest in these technologies and
prior experience in DNA techniques is required.
Expressions of interest in a PhD scholarship within the
scope of the project outlined above should include
(a) A concise statement in a few paragraphs of your
background and interests, including why you are in-
terested in this scholarship and what particular knowl-
edge, skills and attitudes you would bring to the team.
(b) A concise statement in a few paragraphs of where
you would see yourself career-wise in 5 year's time, and
later in your career, and how this PhD candidate ts
in with your aspirations.
(c) The names and contact details of two academic ref-
erees who are willing to attest to your ability to work
collegiately and contribute positively in a team context,
and who will be willing to provide strong support for
your application.
(d) A Curriculum Vitae as an attachment, outlining
your qualications and experience.
Expressions of Interest should be directed to Bernd
Gruber, Senior CRN Research Fellow, as soon as pos-
sible.For further information about the position or to submit
an expression of interest, contact Prof. Bernd Gruber
(bernd.gruber@canberra.edu.au).
peter.mail2@unmack.net
UCincinnati EvolutionaryGenetics
The Center for Conservation and Research of Endan-
gered Wildlife (CREW) at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botan-
ical Garden in collaboration with the Department of
Biological Sciences at the University of Cincinnati is
oering a unique opportunity for a qualied, energetic
Ph.D. student with a strong interest in plant conser-
vation and molecular biology.The student will be part
of a project supported by a Federal grant from the In-
stitute of Museum and Library Services involving the
evaluation of samples that have been cryopreserved for
up to 24 years in CREW's CryoBioBank.
The specic focus for the student will be to analyze
the genetic components of this project and work with
others in the team, investigating those results in rela-
tion to the survival of seed and tissue samples.The rst
aspect of this will include genetic analysis of samples
removed from storage in comparison with samples that
have been in active culture over the same amount of
time. Comparison will be made with genetic data from
before the time of banking. The goal will be to deter-
mine whether genetic changes have occurred in the sam-
ples over time, during in vitro culture or cryostorage.
Other DNA analytical methods, such as microsatellites,
will also be employed in other parts of this study. Ge-
netic analysis will also be conducted on a subset of sam-
ples that will be re-banked during the course of this
project.The second aspect will involve the analysis of
300 samples for DNA/RNA degradation.This will in-
volve travel to the National Center for Plant Genetic
Resources labs of the USDA in Ft. Collins, CO, for one
week in each of three years, to learn the use of the Ag-
ilent Bioanalyzer, prepare samples, and run them for
analysis. The Ph.D. student will work under the di-
rection of Dr. Theresa Culley, from the Department of
Biological Sciences, University of Cincinnati, in collabo-
ration with Dr. Valerie Pence, the PI of the project, lo-
cated at the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden.The
University and Zoo are within a mile of each other.
Candidates for this position should have a B.S. or an
M.S., with a strong background in plant genetic anal-
ysis and molecular techniques, as well as in statistical42 EvolDir January 1, 2013
analysis. A strong interest in plant conservation is also
required. A familiarity with in vitro and/or cryopreser-
vation methods is desirable.
This position provides an annual stipend of $22,000 in
addition to a graduate scholarship which covers most
tuition costs. The position will start no later than
September, 2013, but an earlier start date can be con-
sidered.
To apply for this position, go online: http://-
grad.uc.edu/admissions.html. More information on the
application process for the UC Biological Sciences pro-
gram is at: http://www.artsci.uc.edu/collegedepts/-
biology/grad/application info.aspx .Review of applica-
tions will begin on Jan. 1, 2013, and will con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is found. For fur-
therinformation on the project, contact Dr. Theresa
Culley, Department of Biological Sciences, Univer-
sity of Cincinnati, 614 Rieveschl Hall, Cincinnati, OH
45221-0006, theresa.culley@uc.edu ; or Dr. Valerie
Pence, Center for Conservation and Research of En-
dangered Wildlife, Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Gar-
den, 3400 Vine Street, Cincinnati, OH, 45220: va-
lerie.pence@cincinnatizoo.org
culleyt@ucmail.uc.edu
UEdinburgh ParasiteEvolution
PhD STUDENTSHIPS IN PARASITE/ DISEASE
EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY University of Edin-
burgh Sarah Reece http://reece.bio.ed.ac.uk/
(1) LIFE HISTORY EVOLUTION, PHENOTYPIC
PLASTICITY AND REPRODUCTIVE STRATE-
GIES OF MALARIA PARASITES
Our lab integrates developments in disciplines across
biology into an evolutionary-ecology framework to con-
duct novel experiments that investigate the strate-
gies that malaria parasites have evolved to maximize
their survival during infections and transmission to
new hosts. Research at the interface between medicine
and evolutionary ecology oers huge advances to both
elds. This is the motivation for our work. For ex-
ample, by using malaria parasites to test the predic-
tions and assumptions underlying evolutionary theories
we can reveal the generality and explanatory power of
this approach. Likewise, explaining how parasites have
evolved to cope with variable interactions with hosts
and vectors (e.g., the availability of resources, compe-tition with other parasites, exposure to drugs and vac-
cines), is central to making medical interventions as
\evolution-proof" as possible. Possible questions that
could form the basis of a PhD project on malaria para-
sites include: (a) how do parasites interact with rel-
atives and non-relatives in mixed- strain or -species
infections? (b) what is the optimal allocation of re-
sources to male and female stages? (c) how do para-
site mating behaviours maximize reproductive success
in the mosquito gut? (d) why do parasites undergo a
form of programmed cell suicide? (e) why has plasticity
in parasite sex ratio and reproductive eort decisions
evolved? (f) is plasticity in host exploitation traits,
such as preference for dierent ages of red blood cell,
adaptive? (g) do parasites actively coordinate impor-
tant behaviours, such as developmental synchronicity?
(2) DRUG RESISTANCE IN PARASITIC NEMA-
TODES
Parasitic nematodes live in the bodies of others - with
whom they are engaged in a life-and-death struggle -
yet, how parasites cope with the challenges of their
lifestyle is remarkably poorly understood. Evolution-
ary processes continually erode eorts to control these
pathogens and, as a consequence, such infections re-
main responsible for considerable mortality and mor-
bidity in livestock, humans, and crops. Parasitic nema-
todes of sheep have readily evolved resistance to most
anthelmintic drugs available, so nding ways to min-
imise selection for the emergence and spread of resis-
tance is vital to maximise the useful lifespan of new
anthelmintic products. Whilst some molecular mark-
ers for anthelmintic resistance genes have been identi-
ed, the evolution and ecology of resistance remains is
poorly understood. This project could focus on asking
one or more of the above questions within an evolu-
tionary context (analogous to recent work on malaria
parasites by Sarah Reece). The p roject will focus on
investigating the nematodes of domestic sheep in collab-
oration with Jacqui Matthews (Moredun Research In-
stitute, Edinburgh). Key questions remain unanswered,
including: (a) What life history traits are involved in
resistance or tolerance to anthelmintics (e.g., do worms
shut down reproduction when exposed to drugs and
does this help them survive)? (b) How do these traits
interact with the evolution of molecular mechanisms
that interact with the drugs (e.g., alternative metabolic
pathways)? (c) How does recombination inuence the
spread of resistance mutations (e.g., is mating between
sensitive and resistant worms random)? (d) Are there
tness costs of resistance in the absence of drugs (e.g.,
are resistant worms poorer competitors)? (e) How do
processes such as density-dependence in the host, den-
sity of hosts on pasture, host age and immunity, andJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
time on pasture, interact to shape the epidemiology of
nematodes exposed to anthelmintic selection pressures?
(f) What are optimal treatment strategies for the man-
agement of resistance?
(3) LIFE IN VECTORS: MALARIA PARASITE
EVOLUTION AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF
MOSQUITO CONTROL
Most disease research focuses on the processes that re-
sult in symptoms during infections and much progress
in uncovering the interactions between parasites and
their hosts has been made. However, for vector borne
parasites, analogous studies of interactions between
parasites and vectors have been neglected, despite the
fact that vectors are responsible for spreading disease.
Clearly, to fully understand the evolution of such para-
sites it is necessary to ask how parasites solve the chal-
lenges of living in hosts and in vectors. The project will
investigate how disease transmission is shaped by the
ecological interactions parasites experience inside the
vector. The student will use malaria parasites of ro-
dents and mosquitoes to integrate developments from
dierent biological disciplines into an evolutionary
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh TreeEvolution
Title: Quantifying the potential for adaptation of na-
tive tree populations to climate change
Rapid climate change is perceived to be a signicant
threat to the long term persistence of our native tree
populations. It has been argued by some authors that
tree populations will fail to adapt because the rate of
climate change is too great compared to tree longevity,
because tree populations maintain insucient adap-
tive variation and because the contemporary landscape
is impermeable to dispersal, preventing range shifts.
Other authors have contended that most tree species
have high phenotypic plasticity, maintain high levels of
within-population genetic variation and have very eec-
tive gene dispersal capability, all characteristics which
should enable eective adaptive responses to take place.
The aim of this PhD is to investigate these questions by
collecting data on the extent of phenotypic plasticity,the level of adaptive genetic variation and the extent
of gene ow among populations of native tree species,
including silver birch (Betula pendula) and rowan (Sor-
bus aucuparia). Together the data will be used to as-
sess the potential for adaptation to climate change for
birch and rowan in the UK. The PhD will make use of
established multisite provenance trials to measure phe-
notypic plasticity and genetic variation for a range of
traits important in adaptation to climate. This will
involve application of fast phenotyping techniques to
quantify physiological variation among and within pop-
ulations. Genetic markers will also be employed to es-
timate the extent of gene ow occurring among native
populations. Results from the PhD will be of great rel-
evance in the development of mitigation strategies for
native forests in the face of climate change.
The project is part of an ongoing collaboration between
CEH, Forest Research and the University of Edinburgh
and will be funded by Forestry Commission GB. The
successful candidate would be registered with the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, but should expect to spend sig-
nicant amounts of time at each of the collaborating
Institutions, all in or around Edinburgh. The successful
candidate will have a strong motivation for the subject,
with a clear background in evolutionary biology. Ca-
pability for extended periods of eldwork is necessary
and good statistical skills would be an advantage.
Funding Notes:
To apply for this project please send a CV and covering
letter with details of two referees to the contact super-
visor: Dr S Cavers scav@ceh.ac.uk . CEH are com-
mitted to a high quality graduate training programme
to ensure that the successful candidate has access to
opportunities to develop their career skills and experi-
ence. A stipend and fees will be provided at the RCUK
rate. Please refer to the CEH website at www.ceh.ac.uk
for details of our scientic research and to the NERC
website at http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/ for details of funding eligibility.
References:
Davis et al. (2001) Range shift and adaptive responses
to quaternary climate change. Science 292, 673-679.
Gomulkiewicz & Holt (1995) When does evolution by
natural selection prevent extinction? Evolution, 49,
201-207. Parmesan (2006) Ecological and evolutionary
responses to recent climate change Ann Rev EcolEvol-
Syst 37: 637-669. Salmela et al. (2011). Seasonal pat-
terns of photochemical capacity and spring phenology
reveal genetic dierentiation among native Scots pine
(Pinus sylvestris L.) populations in Scotland. Forest
Ecology and Management 262: 1020-1029.44 EvolDir January 1, 2013
scav@ceh.ac.uk
UExeter MicrobialEvolution
PHD IN SYSTEMS AND SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY
We invite applications to pursue a PhD in a new re-
search project funded by the Biotechnology and Bio-
logical Sciences Research Council (BBSRC); http://-
osslab.ex.ac.uk/adLola.html This exciting project em-
ploys both top-down (directed evolution) and bottom-
up (synthetic biology) engineering of biomethane pro-
ducing microbial communities (BMCs) with improved
functionality. These two approaches are connected
via the resulting BMCs, which will be further anal-
ysed in mid-scale reactors with the aim to impact
biotechnological application of microbial communities.
More broadly, this research project will address sev-
eral fundamental scientic questions on the link be-
tween the structure and function of microbial commu-
nities. The project involves 11 Principal Investigators
from four institutions, and an industrial consultancy.
They bring in expertise on microbial evolution (Pro-
fessor Angus Buckling), synthetic biology (Dr Orkun
Soyer), control and process engineering (Professor De-
clan Bates, Professor Tom Curtis, Dr Jan Dolng, Pro-
fessor David Stuckey, Dr Phil Hobbs), bioinformatics
(Dr David Swarbreck, Dr Russell Davenport, Dr David
Studholme) and molecular biology (Professor Richard
Titball). In addition, the project has several indus-
trial partners including small enterprises specialising in
anaerobic digestion as well as multi-national giants such
as Veiola and Waitrose. The studentships will address
fundamental questions in understanding and engineer-
ing microbial communities. The exact nature of spe-
cic PhD projects will be determined in consideration
of candidates interests and expertise, but will be set in
the broad areas of:
* Model-based, reliable design and experimental imple-
mentation of synthetic microbial communities. * De-
velopment of bioinformatics methods for quantitative
analysis of metagenomic sequence data. * Understand-
ing ecological and evolutionary dynamics of microbial
communities. * Analysis of phage dynamics in micro-
bial communities. * Development of novel mathemati-
cal tools for microbial community modelling.
Four year studentship: Tuition fees UK/EU and an an-
nual maintenance allowance at current research council
rate.To apply please visit; http://www.exeter.ac.uk/-
studying/funding/award/?id=1089 Orkun S. Soyer,
PhD Senior Lecturer in Systems Biology Engineering,
Mathematics and Physical Sciences University of Ex-
eter Tel: +44 (0)1392 723615
Lab: http://osslab.ex.ac.uk/ Tinker: http://-
osslab.ex.ac.uk/Tinker.aspx Synthetic Communities:
http://osslab.ex.ac.uk/adLola.html \Soyer, Orkun"
<O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk >
UGiessen Germany
EvolutionaryEcologyTribolium
PhD Position in Evolutionary Ecology, Gie c, Germany
Topic: External immune Defence in the Red Flour Bee-
tle Tribolium castaneum
The aim of this PhD project is to use a manipulative
approach to understand the relative importance of in-
ternal and external immune defences in the model or-
ganism Tribolium castaneum. This beetle and their
sister-species expresses external defences in the form of
secreted antimicrobial substances as well as internal,
\classical" immune mechanisms. The relative advan-
tages and disadvantages of these two types of defences
are as yet unclear. They shall be evaluated with the
help of selection lines, controlled lab experiments and
molecular approaches such as transcriptome analyses.
The project is part of the German Science Foundation,
Priority Program 1399 Host-Parasite Coevolution 
with a grant to Dr. Gerrit Joop.
This specic PhD position (payment according to 13
TV-H, 65%) under supervision of Dr. Gerrit Joop
will be based in the Department Applied Entomology,
Institute for Phytopathology and Applied Zoology at
the University of Gie c(Hessen, Germany), headed by
Prof. Dr. Andreas Vilcinskas. The department itself
provides an international and interactive atmosphere,
while the University of Gie cand connected institutes
(e.g., Fraunhofer Project Group) oer a stimulating re-
search environment with a particular focus on entomol-
ogy, evolutionary biology, insect biotechnology and ge-
netics.
The city of Gie cis a medium-sized old university town
situated in the low mountain range between Vogelsberg,
Taunus and Westerwald in the middle of Germany. It
oers many opportunities for leisure activities, includ-
ing theatres and opera, the Gie csummer music festi-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
val, hiking, cycling, and canoeing on the river Lahn,
which runs through town. Basketball is the sport in
town, with the 46ers playing in the German rst bas-
ketball league. Close by is Germanys nancial capital
Frankfurt with its international airport.
Requirements for the position: Master or Diploma in
Biology; high motivation, excellent background in ecol-
ogy and/or evolutionary biology; good knowledge of
molecular biological methods, population genetics and
statistics; handling of complex experimental set-up,
teamwork; ideally some experience with T. castaneum,
and uency in English.
Please send applications with CV, one-page statement
of research interests, and the names and addresses of
two referees as a single pdf- le by email to Gerrit Joop
(gjoop <at>zoologie.uni-kiel.de). Deadline for applica-
tions: 7th January 2013. Start of position: February
2013 or soon thereafter. Women are especially encour-
aged to apply. Severely handicapped people will be
preferentially considered in case of equivalent quali-
cations. For further details & questions, send an email
to Gerrit Joop (Gerrit.Joop <at>agrar.uni-giessen.de).
Otherwise see: http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/-
evoecogen/corporateimmunity/ http://www.uni-
kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/joop/ http://www.uni-
giessen.de/cms/fbz/fb09/institute/ipaz/abt/ento
Gerrit Joop <gjoop@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >
UGroningen 2
EvolutionarySystemsBiology
2 PhD Positions in Evolutionary Systems Biology Uni-
versity of Groningen, the Netherlands
The Theoretical Biology group at the University of
Groningen is seeking to recruit two PhD students to
strengthen a starting research team in Evolutionary
Systems biology. The positions are full-time and avail-
able immediately.
Research environment
The positions are part of the project Systems biology
meets evolutionary theory: modeling the genetics and
adaptation of complex traits, funded by the Nether-
lands Organization for Scientic Research (NWO) and
the European Research Council (ERC). Key objectives
of this project are to understand how biomolecular in-
teraction networks have been shaped by evolution, and
how the structure of such networks inuences pheno-typic adaptation. To these ends, the research team
will integrate evolutionary techniques and insights with
systems-biology models, and develop innovative com-
putational approaches for analyzing the structure and
function of complex biomolecular networks. The two
PhD-students will develop theoretical models focused
on specic biological model systems (the evolution of
bacterial chemotaxis and the evolution of cross-feeding
polymorphisms in populations of bacteria), which are
ideally suited to study the molecular basis of adapta-
tion and diversication.
The research team will be embedded in the Theoretical
Biology group at the Centre for Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Studies (CEES), which comprises several other
strong, internationally recognized research groups in
the eld of evolutionary biology. Our group also inter-
acts closely with the molecular geneticists and systems
biologists at the Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute. The University of Groningen
enjoys an international reputation as a dynamic and in-
novative centre of higher education and belongs to the
best research universities in Europe. The university is
ranked 24th (3rd among the European universities) on
this years Best Places to Work in Academia ranking
published by The Scientist.
Requirements
The successful candidates will have previous research
experience in theoretical modeling, be in good com-
mand of the English language (oral and written) and
possess excellent communication skills (indicated by the
ability to write scientic papers and deliver presenta-
tions). Evolutionary systems biology is an emerging
interdisciplinary research eld. Therefore, successful
candidates are expected to demonstrate an active and
supportive approach to inter-disciplinary research that
will help to foster collaborations and interactions with
other group members. Suitable candidates can be ei-
ther individuals with a background in the computa-
tional/molecular (life-)sciences, who are genuinely in-
terested in evolutionary questions, or evolutionary bi-
ologists with a genuine interest in biomolecular mecha-
nisms.
Candidates for the two PhD positions should have: - An
MSc in Biology, with a specialization in Systems Biol-
ogy, Evolutionary Theory or another area of computa-
tional or mathematical biology. - Working knowledge
of a computer programming language, experience with
developing computer simulation code, and a sucient
background in mathematics. - A strong interest in mi-
crobial evolution. Candidates with research experience
in this area are particularly encouraged to apply.
Conditions of employment46 EvolDir January 1, 2013
The University of Groningen oers a salary of 2,042
(salary scale 50.0) gross per month in the rst year, up
to a maximum of 2,612 (scale 50.3) gross per month
in the nal year, based on a full-time position.The po-
sition requires residence in Groningen and must result
in a PhD thesis within the 4-year contract period. A
PhD training program is part of the agreement and the
successful candidate will be enrolled in the Graduate
School of Science. The successful candidate will rst
be oered a temporary position of one year with the
option of renewal for another three years. Prolongation
of the contract is contingent on sucient progress in
the rst year to indicate that a successful completion
of the PhD thesis within the next three years is to be
expected.
How to apply
Applications, including a letter of motivation, a curricu-
lum vitae, a list of publications (if any), a list of exami-
nation marks, and the contact information of three aca-
demic referees, must be submitted online through the
website: http://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-with-us/-
job-opportunities/all-job-vacancies The vacancy num-
bers for these positions are 212274-75. The positions
will remain open until lled. All applications received
by January 7, 2013 will be given full consideration.
For further information, please consult http://-
www.rug.nl http://www.rug.nl/research/cees/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen AvianMicrobes
PhD Position in Animal and Microbial Ecology Uni-
versity of Groningen, the Netherlands Vacancy number
212287
The Animal Ecology and Microbial Ecology groups at
the University of Groningen are seeking to recruit a
PhD student to strengthen a research team working on
the interaction between birds and microbes. The posi-
tion is full-time and available immediately.
Research environment The position is part of the
project -The impact of environment on avian immunity:
ecology and evolution of the match between micro-
bial communities and antimicrobial defenses', fundedby the Netherlands Organization for Scientic Research
(NWO). The key objective of this project is to under-
stand how environmental conditions shape the interac-
tions between the protective systems of birds against
microbes and the microbial communities associated
with birds. We use the egg-nest unit as a simple model
system to study the association between antimicrobial
defenses (of the eggs) and microbial communities (of
the nest environment and the parent). The project
consists of two parts: 1. experimental manipulation
of the nest microbial community to study eects on
the antimicrobial defenses of eggs in captive birds, and
2. a eld study on eggs/nests of wild birds under dif-
ferent environmental conditions. This project ts in a
larger research program focused on understanding how
environmental pathogen pressure and avian immune de-
fenses interact and vary across space and time. Field
activities will connect with this larger research program
that has a special focus in the Netherlands and Kenya.
The research team works at the interface of the Ani-
mal Ecology and Microbial Ecology groups at the Cen-
tre for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies (CEES).
CEES comprises several other strong, internationally
recognized research groups in the elds of ecology and
evolutionary biology. The University of Groningen en-
joys an international reputation as a dynamic and in-
novative centre of higher education and belongs to the
best research universities in Europe.
Requirements The successful candidate is an enthusias-
tic and broad-minded candidate interested in integrat-
ing Animal and Microbial Ecology, is in good command
of the English language (oral and written) and possesses
excellent communication skills (indicated by the abil-
ity to write scientic papers and deliver presentations).
Because of the interdisciplinary nature of the project,
the successful candidate is expected to demonstrate an
active and supportive approach to interdisciplinary re-
search that will help to foster collaborations and inter-
actions with members from both research groups. Ide-
ally, you are an animal ecologist with a special interest
in microbes, or a microbial ecologist with a passion for
birds. A background in veterinary or animal science
is also possible. There is some exibility in the bal-
ance between work with captive birds and in the eld,
depending on your interest.
Candidates for the PhD position should have: * An
MSc in Biology, with a specialization in Animal Ecol-
ogy or Microbial Ecology, or a similar degree in a re-
lated area such as Veterinary Science. * Experience
with work on birds in captivity and/or in the eld will
be an advantage. * Experience with or an interest in
microbiological and biochemical laboratory work.
Conditions of employment The University of GroningenJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
oers a salary of euro 2,042 (salary scale 50.0) gross per
month in the rst year, up to a maximum of euro 2,612
(scale 50.3) gross per month in the nal year, based on
a full-time position. The position requires residence in
Groningen and must result in a PhD thesis within the
4-year contract period. A PhD training program is part
of the agreement and the successful candidate will be
enrolled in the Graduate School of Science. The suc-
cessful candidate will rst be oered a temporary posi-
tion of one year with the option of renewal for another
three years. Prolongation of the contract is contingent
on sucient progress in the rst year to indicate that a
successful completion of the PhD thesis within the next
three years is to be expected.
How to apply Applications, including a letter of motiva-
tion, a curriculum vitae, a list of publications (if any), a
list of examination marks, and letters of recommenda-
tion of two academic referees, must be submitted online
through the website http://www.rug.nl/corporate/-
vacatures/vacaturesRUG. All applications received by
January 20, 2013 will be given full consideration.
Information For further information, please consult
http://www.rug.nl http://www.rug.nl/research/cees
http://www.rug.nl/research/physiological-ecology
http://www.rug.nl/sta/b.i.tieleman
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULausanne LifeHistoryGenomics
A three year PhD position is available in Thomas
Flatt's research group in the Department of Ecology
and Evolution at the University of Lausanne, Switzer-
land, to investigate the genomics and genetics of clinal
variation in Drosophila life history and aging.
Our group studies the mechanisms and evolution of life
history traits, with a particular emphasis on lifespan
and aging. One major focus of our research is on un-
derstanding how hormonal signaling pathways aect
aging and trade-os between reproduction and lifes-
pan, immunity, and somatic maintenance. Another
central focus is on understanding the genetic basis of
evolutionary changes in lifespan and other life history
traits in natural and laboratory populations. To ad-dress these problems we combine the tools of popula-
tion genomics, experimental evolution and articial se-
lection, functional genetics, and physiology in the fruit
y (Drosophila melanogaster).
Our most recent project investigates clinal phenotypic
and genetic dierentiation in Drosophila life history and
aging along a latitudinal gradient (see Fabian et al.
2012 in Molecular Ecology). Drosophila melanogaster,
an ancestrally tropical insect that has spread to temper-
ate regions and become cosmopolitan, oers a power-
ful opportunity for identifying the population genomic
basis underlying clinal dierentiation. We have re-
cently applied genome-wide next generation sequenc-
ing of DNA pools (\pool-seq") to three populations
collected along the North American east coast (South-
ern Florida, Pennsylvania, Maine) to examine patterns
of latitudinal dierentiation. Comparing these popula-
tions is particularly interesting since they exhibit strong
clinal dierentiation in a number of important life his-
tory traits, including body size, fecundity, lifespan and
adult reproductive diapause. We found extensive lati-
tudinal dierentiation at the genic level, with many of
the most strongly dierentiated genes being involved
in central signaling pathways such as the insulin/TOR,
ecdysone, torso, EGFR, TGF^ a/BMP, JAK/STAT, im-
munity and circadian rhythm pathways. While several
of these pathways have been previously implicated in
the regulation of life history in studies of laboratory
mutants, the role of natural variants in these pathways
in aecting life history remains unclear to date. We are
now seeking to perform additional genomic analyses of
clinal dierentiation and to functionally test the role
of candidate polymorphisms we have identied on life
history traits and lifespan.
The project will involve a combination of population
sampling; next generation sequencing and bioinfor-
matic analysis; population cage experiments in the lab-
oratory; functional testing of natural alleles using in-
bred lines, single gene mutants, and transgenes; mea-
suring the eects of these polymorphisms on life his-
tory traits; and physiological measurements.Within this
project, the PhD student is expected to collaborate
closely with the PI, a postdoc, a second PhD student,
and two technicians in Lausanne as well as with several
external collaborators in the US and in Austria.
For further information on our research and our publi-
cations see:
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/Flatt website/-
att home.html <http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/-
product/9780199568772.do >
The successful candidate should have a master degree
and a solid background in evolutionary biology and/or48 EvolDir January 1, 2013
genetics. Preference will be given to candidates with
previous experience with the Drosophila system. The
candidate should be highly motivated, independent,
and scientically driven, with a keen interest in under-
standing evolutionary processes as well as proximate
mechanisms. The work environment is English speak-
ing, and the candidate must have good interpersonal
and communication skills. Knowledge of French is help-
ful but not essential.
The starting date for the position is in the rst half of
2013; the exact date is negotiable. The PhD project is
for three years, with a possible extension for a fourth
year.
The internationally renowned Department of Ecology
and Evolution (DEE; www.unil.ch/dee) at the Univer-
sity of Lausanne (UNIL) provides a highly stimulating
research environment, hosting 22 research groups and
more than 140 graduate students and postdocs and cov-
ering a very broad range of subjects in ecology and evo-
lution. DEE is the lead institution in an inter-university
PhD program in population genomics, and oers excel-
lent possibilities for collaborations with other groups
working on Drosophila genetics, genomics, or bioinfor-
matics. UNIL is also the home of the Lausanne Ge-
nomic Technologies Facility (GTF) as well as the High
Performance Computing Center (VitalIT), two plat-
forms that oer excellent support for the project.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULausanne Parthenogenesis
A fully-funded PhD position is available for research on
the evolution of parthenogenesis in insects at the De-
partment of Ecology and Evolution at the University of
Lausanne.
The general focus of the group is the diversity of repro-
ductive and genetic systems in animals and the prox-
imate and ultimate mechanisms underlying this diver-
sity. Of particular interest are the factors underly-
ing transitions between genetic systems, and the pro-
posed projects will investigate causes and consequences
of transitions from sexual reproduction to (female-
producing) parthenogenesis. We combine cytologicaland molecular genetics approaches with experimental
evolution to investigate genetic and genomic implica-
tions of transitions between sex and parthenogenesis
in dierent insect systems. Projects may also involve
a combination of eld-work and modeling of popula-
tion dynamics. Successful candidates will have the
opportunity and are encouraged to develop their own
ideas within the frame-work of the group. For further
information and a list of publications, see: http://-
www.tanjaschwander.com/ The Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution in Lausanne provides a stimulating
research environment, with an active program of sem-
inars and discussion groups (in English); see http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/ .Lausanne is located in the French
part of Switzerland, on the shore of Lake Geneva, and
is an attractive city with a high quality of life. The
city is surrounded by beautiful mountain environments-
an excellent area for outdoor activities. See http://-
www.lausanne.ch/ Candidates should have a master
degree in an appropriate discipline and a keen inter-
est in evolutionary biology. The positions require in-
dependent, highly motivated, and scientically curious
individuals with strong interests in the above described
central topic. All our projects are highly integrative
and require willingness to closely collaborate with re-
searchers of dierent backgrounds.
Application requirements: Informal inquiries and
applications can be sent to Tanja Schwander
(tanja.schwander@gmail.com). Formal applications
should include: a 1-2 page cover letter (in English)
indicating research interests, your CV, and two letters
of reference (please include everything in a single pdf
le). Starting date: spring 2013 (earliest possible Feb
1st).
Tanja Schwander
tanja.schwander@gmail.com
UMuenster SexualConict
PhD advert:
*PhD position: Sexual conict and male-female coevo-
lution*
I invite applications for a PhD position in the Junior
research group of Dr. Claudia Fricke (http://ieb.uni-
muenster.de/evolseco) at the Institute for Evolution
and Biodiversity at the University of Muenster in Ger-
many.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
The start date will be February 2013 (or as soon as
possible thereafter) until January 2016.
I am interested in the study of traits shaped by sexual
antagonistic coevolution driven by sexual conict be-
tween the sexes. Sexual conict is prevalent between
the sexes and has been shown to occur in a broad
range of taxa. In my research I work with the fruit
y /Drosophila melanogaster/, which is a widely used
model organism and also sexual conict has been widely
studied in this species. Within the project the success-
ful candidate will study how ecological factors might
alter sexual antagonistic trait expression and the conse-
quences for male-female coevolution. This will be done
by combining molecular work with behavioural experi-
mental work to measure trait expression at the molec-
ular level combined with phenotypic tests and tness
estimates.
WWU is a large vibrant university hosting a num-
ber of excellent scientic institutions (http://www.uni-
muenster.de/en/). The Institute for Evolution and Bi-
ology provides a stimulating research environment with
a number of scientic groups researching on diverse top-
ics centred on dierent aspects of the study of Evolu-
tion. The town of Muenster itself is characterised by
its many students and presents a dynamic environment
with many cultural and social events throughout the
year (http://www.muenster.de/en/).
Qualications: I search a highly motivated student of
any nationality and those with the equivalent of a Mas-
ter's degree in biology are invited to apply. A back-
ground in any of the following subjects will be useful:
previous experience with Drosophila work, good molec-
ular skills, preferably experience with qPCR, a good
understanding of statistics. Applicants should have ex-
cellent communication skills. The working language of
the institute and the lab is English.
Please send your application in one single PDF le to
Dr. Claudia Fricke (Claudia.Fricke@uni-muenster.de).
Included should be 1) a cover letter with a statement of
your research interests and motivation (max. 1 page),
2) your CV including details of your research experi-
ence (with the abstract of your masters thesis) and 3)
contact details of at least two referees.
Applications should be written in English and the dead-
line is the 7 ^th of December 2012.
The salary will be for 36 months (TV-L E13/50%) with
regular weekly working hours of 39 hours and 50 min-
utes. Applications of women are specially invited. In
the case of similar qualication, competence and spe-
cic achievements, women will be considered on prefer-
ential terms within the framework of the legal possibil-ities. Preference will be given to disabled applicants in
case of equivalent qualication.
{ Claudia Fricke Junior Research Leader
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity H uerstr. 1 48 149 Muenster, Germany
Tel. ++49(0)251-83 21042 e-mail: Claudia.Fricke@uni-
muenster.de
Claudia Fricke <Claudia.Fricke@uni-muenster.de >
UNottingham Evolution Colour
Polymorphism
Funding is available for a four year BBSRC DTP PhD
studentship (deadline 9th January), to be awarded on a
competitive basis within the University of Nottingham,
to investigate the evolution, genetics and development
of colour polymorphism in snails
Studies on the classic shell colour and banding poly-
morphism of the land snail Cepaea played a crucial
role in establishing the importance of natural selec-
tion in maintaining morphological variation. Cepaea is
also a pre-eminent model for ecological genetics because
the outward colour and banding phenotype is entirely
genetically determined, primarily by a 'supergene' of
at least ve loci. Unfortunately, progress in under-
standing the evolution and maintenance of the Cepaea
polymorphism stalled, partly because of a lack of ge-
netic markers. With a view to re-establish Cepaea as
a prominent model of molecular ecology, we are ap-
plying next generation sequencing methods to investi-
gate the evolution, genetics and development of this
colour polymorphism. Although the precise nature of
the project will be determined by the state of play when
the project begins and the interests of the student, I en-
visage that he/she will use Illumina RAD-Seq genotyp-
ing runs, along with RNA Seq methods and possible
BAC mapping to home in on the genes in question.
He/she may also develop new species/models to study
(possibly involving eldwork), enabling deeper compar-
ative analyses, or develop in situ based methods to com-
pare gene expression. The student will receive training
in standard molecular lab methods, next generation se-
quencing and bioinformatic methods. The training pro-
gramme also includes rst year rotation projects, plus a
three-month full-time placement outside of the research
environment. Finally, as another research interest of
the lab is in the evolution and development of sinistral50 EvolDir January 1, 2013
snails, then a project in this area is also possible.
Applicants should have, or expect to receive, a good
degree in a relevant subject, and an interest and enthu-
siasm for evolution. In the rst instance, prospective
students should send a CV and an indication of general
area of interest to angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk;
see also www.angusdavison.org . Funding details:
Funding is available for four years from Autumn 2013.
A full award would be fees plus an annual stipend. This
is set by the Research Councils and was $13,590 for
2012/13. 2013/14 rates are currently to be conrmed.
Eligibility:
Eligibility for full funding is restricted to UK residents
(fees and stipend). EU students are eligible for fees
only awards, unless the applicants full the residency
criteria for a full award. To be eligible applicants must
have (or be expected to achieve) a rst or upper sec-
ond class UK honours degree, or the equivalent qual-
ications gained outside the UK and/or a postgradu-
ate Masters degree in a relevant subject. For full el-
igibility criteria visit: http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/web/-
FILES/Guidelines/studentship eligibility.pdf How to
apply:
Applicants should go to www.nottingham.ac.uk/bbdtp
to download the application and reference forms. For
more information regarding projects, training and
structure of the DTP see http://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/PhDDetails.aspx?CAID=954&LID=338 and
www.nottingham.ac.uk/bbdtp. Note that an impor-
tant part of this BBSRC DTP scheme is a lab rotation
during the rst year. A full list of the possible projects
under the Molecules, Cells and Organisms banner
is here http://nottingham.ac.uk/graduateschool/-
documents/bbsrc-dtp/molecules-cells-and-organisms-
projects-2013-2014va.pdf { Dr. Angus Davison Reader
in Evolutionary Genetics School of Biology University
Park University of Nottingham NG7 2RD
0115 8230322 angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk
www.angusdavison.org An-
gus.Davison@nottingham.ac.uk
UOtago NZ
GeneticsComplexAvianCognition
PhD Project Opportunity Available to
Investigate the Genetics of Complex CognitionWe are currently seeking at least one, but poten-
tially several PhD students with interests in genet-
ics/genomics, evolution, and behavioural ecology to
conduct research into the genetic basis of complex cog-
nition in New Caledonian crows.
Project Description: The discovery of complex avian
cognitive abilities has revolutionized our understand-
ing of the evolution of intelligence. However, the ge-
netic basis of these abilities is unknown. One possi-
bility is that numerous changes in genes across a wide
range of functional domains are required for the evo-
lution of complex intelligence. Alternatively, only a
limited number of genetic tweaks might be required.
We will compare the tool manufacturing New Caledo-
nian crow with closely related non-tool-using crows to
search for genes that underpin a tool-using lifestyle.
Once identied, we will test the involvement of spe-
cic genes by examining if genetic polymorphisms can
explain the variability in the tool-using lifestyles of New
Caledonian crows that exists between individuals and
populations. By harnessing the extraordinary advances
in Next-Generation-Sequencing we hope to uncover the
genetic basis of complex cognition in the wild.
The project emerges from a new Marsden Grant headed
by Dr Gavin Hunt (Auckland) in collaboration with
Profs Neil Gemmell (Otago) and Russell Gray (Auck-
land). The PhD position will be based in the Gemmell
laboratory at the University of Otago.
The Ideal Candidate: The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics, genomics, evolution-
ary genetics and behavioural ecology. Knowledge of
NGS approaches and analyses will be a distinct advan-
tage, while an interest in neurobiology and cognition
may be helpful. The successful candidate will be moti-
vated and organised, with a demonstrated capacity to
master the broad skill set necessary for the successful
completion of a research project. They will be a com-
petent laboratory worker, with experience of all routine
molecular genetic techniques, and should be computer
literate with familiarity with database management and
statistical analyses.
Minimum qualications: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc.
in Genetics, Genomics, Molecular Biology or equivalent
with an A average or better.
Scholarship Funding: Financial support should be
available for a high achieving student with an A av-
erage or better via a University of Otago or De-
partmental scholarship see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
study/scholarships/).
Eligibility: The University of Otago and Depart-
mental scholarships are open to all nationalities.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
However, overseas candidates for whom English
is not a rst language must satisfy the English
Language Requirements of the University <http:/-
/www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
index.html#englishlanguage >to be eligible for study
(see). Other international eligibility criteria are here <
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
otago002221.html >.
How to Apply: Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering
letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
Further information Gemmell lab <http://gemmell-
lab.otago.ac.nz/ >Centre for Reproduction and
Genomics <http://www.otago.ac.nz/crg >Cognition
and culture in New Caledonian crows <http://-
www.psych.auckland.ac.nz/uoa/new-caledonian-crow-
cognition-and-culture-research >
Applications close on the 1st February 2013. It would
be desirable if the successful applicant were able to start
in early/mid 2013.
Neil J. Gemmell Professor and Director Centre for
Reproduction and Genomics Department of Anatomy
University of Otago, PO Box 913 Dunedin 9054 New
Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 6824 Fax: +64 3 479 7254 e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz website: www.otago.ac.nz/-
crg neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
UPompeuFabra Barcelona 2
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Evolutionary Genomics Group at the IBE/UPF is
looking for 1 PhD Student, 1 PostDoc and 2 IT tech-
nicians.
The Evolutionary Genomics Group, led by Arcadi
Navarro (biologiaevolutiva.org/anavarro/), is a friendly
and interactive team composed by highly motivated
people. The group is part of the Institute of Evolu-
tionary Biology (www.ibe.upf-csic.es) of the Universi-
tat Pompeu Fabra (www.upf.edu) and the Consejo Su-
perior de Investigaciones Cient cas (CSIC). Addition-ally, the group hosts a Node of the Spanish National
Bioinformatics Institute (www.inab.org). The group is
integrated in the Barcelona Biomedical Research Park
(www.prbb.org), a renowned centre for Biomedical re-
search that hosts several other institutions, such as the
CRG (Centre for Genomic Regulation www.crg.org),
with whom we collaborate regularly. All these organi-
zations share a thrilling and dynamic scientic atmo-
sphere, driven by leading groups in elds such as bioin-
formatics, systems biology or evolution, just to name
a few. To make things better, the PRBB is located
close to Barcelona's City Centre (right in front of the
beach!).
The student or postdoc will join one of the on-going
projects in the lab, including the molecular evolution of
segmental duplications, the genetic structure of human
socio-economic behaviour, or the evolution of human
disease and ageing. Ideal candidates should have a pop-
ulation genetics and/or genome bioinformatics back-
ground. The PhD studentship is available for four years
and the postdoc for three. All of them are renewable
on a yearly basis.
The IT technicians will provide general support to the
team and help maintaining our local cluster. Expe-
rience in PHP, Java, APACHE and Linux systems is
required. Working knowledge of database design and
database-oriented programming (MySQL) is also desir-
able. Candidates willing to pursue a scientic career
(either at the doctoral or the postdoctoral level) within
our group while performing programming tasks are also
encouraged to apply. Positions are open-ended and re-
newable on a yearly basis.
Salaries will be according to training and experience.
Positions will remain open until they are lled. Mo-
tivated and potentially competitive applicants should
send, preferably via e-mail, a short letter of interest, a
CV and the contact details of two references to:
Arcadi Navarro i Cuartiellas Universitat Pompeu Fabra
C/ Dr. Aiguader 88 08003 BARCELONA , SPAIN E-
mail: arcadi.navarro@upf.edu
Arcadi Navarro <arcadi.navarro@upf.edu >
URhodeIsland EvolutionParasitism
The Lane Lab at the University of Rhode Island
(http://cels.uri.edu/bio/lanelab/) is looking to ll at
least one PhD position to work on the evolution of52 EvolDir January 1, 2013
parasitism. Our lab uses oomycetes and red algae as
systems to understand genomic changes at the transi-
tion between free living and parasitic lifestyles. Candi-
dates should be interested in bioinformatics and han-
dling large-scale datasets. Familiarity with program-
ming is an asset, but not required.
Interested students can apply to either the Integrated
Evolutionary Biology or Cell and Molecular Biology
graduate groups in the College of the Environment and
Life Sciences (http://web.uri.edu/cels/) at URI. The
program deadline for applications is January 15th. Po-
tential applicants are strongly encouraged to contact
Dr. Chris Lane (clane@mail.uri.edu) with a brief state-
ment of interest and qualications.
Chris Lane Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences University of Rhode Island 120 Flagg
Road Kingston, RI., 02881 Oce: CBLS 277 ph (401)
874-2683 fax (401) 874-2065 http://cels.uri.edu/bio/-
lanelab/
Chris Lane <clane@mail.uri.edu >
UStAndrews
EvolutionaryBioionformatics
A PHYLOGENETIC-STATISTICAL MODEL FOR
FUNCTIONAL ANNOTATION OF GENOMES
Proposed PhD project in evolutionary bioinformatics
Supervisors:
Dr Daniel Barker, School of Biology, University of St
Andrews http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/db60.htm
Dr John Mitchell, School of Chemistry, University of
St Andrews http://chemistry.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
jbom/group Background:
A rapid bioinformatics approach to accurately predict
the function of genes and gene-regulatory regions within
genomes is urgently required. There is an 'analysis gap',
with laboratory experiments often infeasible and bioin-
formatics tools frequently failing to make best use of
plentiful genome-sequence data. Additional evidence,
either from comparatively analysing several genomes
simultaneously (Barker & Pagel 2005) or from non-
sequence genome-wide data, provides further clues con-
cerning function and evolution. Applying trait evolu-
tion models to genomic data (Latysheva et al. 2012), we
will enhance methods we have developed to (a) predict
gene-gene functional linkages, using gain and loss fromgenomes over evolutionary time (Barker et al. 2007),
and (b) detect regulatory regions within sequences from
sequence motifs and epigenetic data. Methods will
be extended to (c) predict gene-environment linkages
and (d) predict gene-regulatory region linkages, from
gene gain and loss. An integrated predictive model will
be developed and tested, inputting gene-sequences and
phenotypic and environmental traits, and outputting
accurate predictions of biological gene function, with
particular attention to enzyme function, and the loca-
tion and function of regulatory regions. As a practi-
cal validation, a range of new genomes will be draft-
sequenced using Oxford Nanopore MinION USB sticks
and functionally annotated with our novel model.
References: Barker D, Meade A, Pagel M (2007) Con-
strained models of evolution lead to improved predic-
tion of functional linkage from correlated gain and
loss of genes. Bioinformatics 23:14-20. Barker D,
Pagel M (2005) Predicting functional gene links from
phylogenetic-statistical analyses of whole genomes.
PLoS Computational Biology 1:e3. Latysheva N,
Junker VL, Palmer WJ, Codd GA, Barker D (2012)
The evolution of nitrogen xation in cyanobacteria.
Bioinformatics 28:603-606.
Application procedure:
Excellent UK and other EU students with (or antici-
pating to receive at the end of this academic year) a
minimum of an upper second class Honours degree are
encouraged to apply, and will be considered for admis-
sion and funding in strict competition with applicants
across a range of proposed projects.
Non-EU citizens MAY ONLY APPLY IF THEY HAVE
ALREADY OBTAINED FUNDING (to cover univer-
sity fees + living expenses).
If funding has already been obtained, please indicate
this in your application.
Applications must be received in full by 31st Jan-
uary 2013. Please follow the instructions at: http:/-
/biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/pageset.aspx?psr=3D77 In-
formal enquiries are welcome - contact Daniel Barker
<db60@st-andrews.ac.uk >.
{ Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.ukJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
UStAndrews MarineDiversity
STATISTICAL METHODS FOR THE STUDY OF
CONNECTIVITY IN MARINE SPECIES
Supervisor: Prof. Oscar Gaggiotti, Scottish
Oceans Institute (http://soi.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
default.aspx), School of Biology (http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk), University of St Andrews (http://-
www.st-andrews.ac.uk)
Dispersal is one of the most important processes driv-
ing the dynamics and structure of marine communities,
local adaptation of species, and maintenance of genetic
diversity. Additionally, a thorough knowledge of dis-
persal patterns is essential for the eective spatial man-
agement of sheries and the design of marine protected
areas (MPAs). However, inferring patterns of demo-
graphic connectivity in marine species with long-lived
pelagic larvae remains a challenging task.
Several approaches and types of data have been used
to study connectivity. Genetic approaches typically es-
timate rates of gene ow while micro-chemical nger-
printing is used to assign individuals to source popula-
tions. More recently it has been possible to obtain esti-
mates of connectivity from biophysical models of ocean
circulation and larval transport. However, all methods
are challenged by the large spatial scale at which dis-
persal in marine species takes place and by the sheer
size of populations of marine organisms. There are good
examples of studies that have successfully characterised
dispersal patterns at a small spatial scale but the same
is not true for large geographic areas. No single method
or data type has proven successful in this latter case
and it has become clear that there is a need for statis-
tical approaches that combine all available sources of
information.
The thesis project is aimed at developing Bayesian ap-
proaches to estimate connectivity using all available
data and in particular genetic, microchemistry, and
output from larval transport models. Some of the sta-
tistical techniques necessary to achieve this goal have
been developed by Oscar Gaggiotti's group (see refer-
ences below) and will be used to develop new and im-
proved methods for the estimation of connectivity pat-
terns.
This graduate position is funded by the Marine Alliance
for Science and Technology (http://www.masts.ac.uk).The ideal candidate would have a very good background
in statistics and an interest in population genetics and
computational biology. The focus of the project is on
statistical developments and data analysis so there will
be no lab or eld work at all. Only applicants interested
in computer based work should apply.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE Interested candidates
should send a letter of introduction, a CV and grade
transcripts before 20 January 2013 to Oscar Gaggiotti
(see email addresses below). Additionally, two letters
of recommendation should be sent independently to the
email addresses below:
oeg@st-andrews.ac.uk oscar.gaggiotti@ujf-grenoble.fr
Please note that I'm in the process of moving to St
Andrews so you should send the requested material to
both email addresses.
List of Publications related to the project
Hoban, S, G Bertorelle and OE Gaggiotti, 2012. Com-
puter simulations: tools for population and evolution-
ary genetics, Nature Reviews Genetics, 13: 110-122.
Meirmans P, J Goudet, Intrabiodiv Consortium and
OE Gaggiotti, 2011. Ecology and life-history aect dif-
ferent aspects of the population structure of 27 high-
alpine plants, Molecular Ecology, 20: 3144-3155. Gag-
giotti, OE, D. Bekkevold, HBJ Jrgensen, M Foll, GR
Carvalho, C Andre and DE Ruzzante, 2009. Disen-
tangling the eects of evolutionary, demographic and
environmental factors inuencing the genetic structure
of natural populations: Atlantic herring as a case study.
Evolution 63 :2939-2951. Faubet P and OE Gaggiotti,
2008. A new Bayesian method to identify the environ-
mental factors that inuence recent migration. Genet-
ics 178:1491-1504. Foll, M, and OE Gaggiotti, 2006.
Identifying the environmental factors that determine
the genetic structure of Populations. Genetics 174:
875-891. Gaggiotti, OE, SP Brooks, W Amos and J
Harwood, 2004. Combining demographic, environmen-
tal and genetic data to test hypotheses about coloniza-
tion events in metapopulations. Molecular Ecology 13:
811-825. Gaggiotti, OE, F Jones, WM Lee, W Amos,
J Harwood et al., 2002 Patterns of colonization in a
metapopulation of grey seals. Nature 416: 424-427.
Oscar Gaggiotti Professor LECA UMR CNRS 5553
Universite Joseph Fourier BP 53 38041 GRENOBLE
France Tel.: 33(0)4 76 51 44 97 Fax: 33(0)4 76 51
42 79 http://www-leca.ujf-grenoble.fr/membres/-
gaggiotti.htm http://www-leca.ujf-grenoble.fr/-
projets/gaggiottiprojets/IMPBioFr.htm
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.54 EvolDir January 1, 2013
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UStAndrews SexAllocation
Graduate Positions: University of St Andrews, School
of Biology, Insect Behavioural Ecology Lab.
Up to three PhD studentships are available to study
aspects of sex allocation behaviour and genetics in par-
asitoid wasps with Dr Dave Shuker.
(1) \Determining the mechanisms of irrational decision
making" (BBSRC-funding available; in collaboration
with Dr Sue Healy) This project will explore how ani-
mals make context-dependent decisions in a variety of
ecological contexts, and will include eld-work on for-
aging hummingbirds and lab work on parasitoid wasp
oviposition and sex allocation behaviour. Deadline 31st
January 2013.
(2) \A community genetics approach to understand-
ing tri-trophic interactions" (James Hutton Institute
& University of St Andrews funding available; in col-
laboration with Dr Ali Karley at the JHI in Dundee).
This project will combine behavioural and quantita-
tive genetic approaches and explore inter-specic eects
on egg laying and sex allocation in the parasitic wasp
Aphidius ervi. This project will be based at the James
Hutton Institute in Dundee and be co-supervised by
Dave Shuker. Deadline 15th January 2013.
(3) \What are the genetic constraints on behaviour?"
(NERC-funding available). This project will continue
our exploration of the genetic basis of sex allocation be-
haviour in Nasonia vitripennis, using both quantitative
and molecular genetic techniques. There will also be
the opportunity for new behavioural research on Naso-
nia reproductive biology as we seek to place sex alloca-
tion within the broader context of life-history evolution
in Nasonia. Deadline 31st January 2013.
The University of St Andrews awards PhD studentships
on a competitive basis. Some funding streams are only
available for UK applicants. For further details please
visit ndaphd.com or email Dave: david.shuker@st-
andrews.ac.uk
All applications are made through the School of Biol-
ogy, please visit us at http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
postgraduate/ ** ENTO 2013 University of St An-
drews 4th-6th September 2013**For further details of the Royal Entomological So-
ciety's International Symposium \Thirty Years of
Thornhill & Alcock: The Evolution of Insect Mat-
ing Systems" and National Science Meeting please
visit: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/ento-13-4-6-
september-2013 Dr David M Shuker Lecturer in Be-
havioural Ecology School of Biology University of St
Andrews St Andrews KY16 9TH United Kingdom
Email: david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk Tel: +44 1334
463376 Fax: +44 1334 463366 Web: http://insects.st-
andrews.ac.uk dms14@st-andrews.ac.uk
USussex EectivePopulationSize
NERC/School of Life Sciences-funded PhD studentship
at Sussex University
THE EFFECTIVE POPULATION SIZE OF PLANTS
AND ANIMALS
Most species behave genetically as though they have far
fewer individuals than their census population size. Hu-
mans are a classic example; although there are nearly 7
billion of us, we have the genetic diversity of an \ideal"
species with just 20,000 individuals; this is our eec-
tive population size (Ne). The eective population size
is one of the most important parameters in population
genetics, molecular ecology and evolutionary biology. It
determines both the level of genetic variation there is
in a population and the eciency of natural selection.
Species with small Ne, like our own, have low levels of
genetic diversity and natural selection is less eective
than in a species with large Ne; the relative ineciency
of natural selection in species with small Ne means they
are less likely to x advantageous mutations and more
likely to accumulate deleterious mutations; they are in
some senses less well adapted. Surprisingly, despite its
fundamental importance, Ne has only been estimated
in a hand-full of species.
The aims of the project are two-fold. First, we will esti-
mate Ne in hundreds of animal and plant species using
publicly available DNA sequence data. This broad sur-
vey will give us the rst insight into how many individu-
als a species typically contains genetically and whether
species, such as our own, are unusual. In the second
part of the project we will examine the demographic,
life history and genetic correlates of Ne, in order to
understand what factors and processes contribute to
species having dierent Ne.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
The project is computer based and will give the student
excellent training in population genetics, bioinformatics
and statistics.
The studentship is joint-funded by NERC and the
School of Life Sciences at Sussex University, and will
commence in either October 2013 or January 2014. Full
funding is denitely available for 3.5 years, including re-
search costs. In addition to research, the student will
be expected to contribute up to 50 hours/academic year
demonstrating/tutorial teaching without additional re-
muneration.
The Eyre-Walker group studies a range of prob-
lems in molecular evolution, further details of which
can be found on the group's web-site, http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eyre-walkerlab/. The Eyre-
Walker group is part of the Evolution Research group
with faculty working in a number of areas including sex-
ual antagonism (Ted Morrow), social insects (Jeremy
Field, Francis Ratnieks and Bill Hughes) and the evo-
lution of development (Juan-Pablo Couso and Claudio
Alonso).
Recent references relevant to this project (full
list available at http://www.lifesci.susx.ac.uk/home/-
Adam Eyre-Walker/Website/Publications.html):
Gossman, T., Keightley, P.D. and Eyre-Walker, A.
(2012) The eect of variation in the eective popula-
tion size on the rate of adaptive molecular evolution in
eukaryotes. Gen. Biol. Evol. 4, 658-667.
Gossmann, T., Woolt, M. and Eyre-Walker, A. (2011)
Quantifying the variation in the eective population
size within a genome. Genetics 189, 1389-1402.
Piganeau, G. & Eyre-Walker, A. (2009) Evidence for
variation in the eective population size of animal mi-
tochondrial DNA. PLoS One 4, e4396.
a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk
USussex SocialWaspEvolution
NERC/School of Life Sciences-funded PhD studentship
at Sussex University
PARENT-OFFSPRING INTERACTIONS IN PAPER
WASPS (POLISTES)
Parental care and eusociality are two of the best-studied
forms of social behaviour. Interactions and conict be-
tween immature ospring and adults have been wellstudied in birds (ospring begging, parental provision-
ing), but less so in social insects. Functional (adaptive)
questions about sociality have also been well investi-
gated, but less is known about underlying mechanisms.
The studentship will focus on mechanisms underlying
parent-ospring interactions in paper wasps (Polistes).
Paper wasps are ideal for this purpose because of their
small colony size, open nests and easily manipulated,
extremely plastic social system. All adults and imma-
ture larvae are continuously visible on the naked nest
'comb', and behaviour is easily video-recorded. Group
size is small enough that each adult can be given a
unique identifying mark, and because each immature
cannot leave its individual 'cell' in the comb, we can
also keep track of it as it develops.
The research will use spring co-foundress associations
of the well- studied P. dominulus, where typically 3-5
adults tend a group of 20-30 immature ospring. The
main focus will be on how adult wasps choose how much
eort to put into provisioning the ospring. To what
extent does an adult follow a xed provisioning rule, or
at the other extreme, modulate its behaviour accord-
ing to the needs of the ospring and the provisioning
behaviour of its partners? And how does an adult de-
cide which ospring to feed? The research will involve
both eldwork in Spain and lab experiments in the UK,
potentially including molecular genotyping.
The studentship is joint-funded by NERC and the
School of Life Sciences at Sussex University, and will
commence in either October 2013 or January 2014. Full
funding is denitely available for 3.5 years, including re-
search costs. In addition to research, the student will
be expected to contribute up to 50 hours/academic year
demonstrating/tutorial teaching without additional re-
muneration.
Our website (http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/-
eldlab/) gives more details of our friendly research
group. The School of Life Sciences provides excellent
opportunities to interact with leading researchers. The
student will particularly benet from an exceptional
(on a world scale) concentration of research expertise
at Sussex that focusses on social evolution in insects.
Jeremy Field, Francis Ratnieks, Bill Hughes, Dave
Goulson (joining Sussex in April 2013), Tom Collett
and Paul Graham all lead well-established research
groups (see http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ebe/-
research for details). Our seminar series have a
correspondingly strong (though by no means exclusive)
focus on social evolution, meaning that students are
frequently exposed to leading researchers from other
universities. The student will attend annual UK
conferences (e.g. the annual 1-2 day UK meeting of the
International Union for the Study of Social Insects)56 EvolDir January 1, 2013
and at least one international conference.
Examples of our related research include:
(1) LEADBEATER, E., CARRUTHERS, J.M.,
GREEN, J.P., ROSSER, N.S. & FIELD, J. (2011)
Nest inheritance is the missing source of direct tness
in a primitively eusocial insect. Science 333:874-876.
[see also commentary on this paper in Science 333:833-
4, 2011] (2) FIELD, J., CRONIN, A. & BRIDGE, C.
(2006). Future tness and helping in social queues.
Nature 441: 214-217. [see also commentaries on this
paper in Nature 444:42-3, and Current Biology 16:
R599-R601] (3) CANT, M.A. & FIELD, J.P. (2005).
Helping eort in a dominance hierarchy. Behavioral
Ecology 16:708-715. (4) SHREEVES, G.E., CANT,
M.A., BOLTON, A. & FIELD, J. (2003). Insurance-
based advantages for subordinate co-foundresses in
a temperate paper wasp Proceedings of the Royal
Society of London Series B 270:1617-1622. (5) CANT,
M.A. & FIELD, J.P. (2001). Helping eort and future
tness in cooperative animal societies. Proceedings of
the Royal Society of London Series B 268: 1959-1964.
REQUIREMENTS: we seek a well-motivated student
with an interest in behavioural/evolutionary ecology,
who enjoys eldwork. Applicants must have or expect
to receive at least a 2:1 degree and be a UK citizen. If
you are a citizen of another EU member state you will
not generally be eligible, unless you have spent the pre-
vious three years in the UK undertaking education (un-
dergraduate or masters) (see http://www.nerc.ac.uk/-
funding/available/postgrad/eligibility.asp for eligibility
details). The successful applicant must be able to work
in the eld, and because the work involves recording
colour marks on
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UToronto PopulationDynamics
PhD and MSc Positions in Population Dynamics and
Conservation at the University of Toronto.
The MK Lab in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology at the University of Toronto
(www.eeb.utoronto.ca/people/d-faculty/Krkosek.htm)
has openings at the MSc and PhD levels in the areasof population dynamics and conservation. Candidates
should have a strong quantitative background and an
interest in using mathematical and statistical models
to understand population dynamics, with potential ap-
plications to conservation, sheries, and epidemiology.
Interested candidates should contact Martin Krkosek
at martin.krkosek@gmail.com with a cover letter, cv,
and unocial transcripts.
Martin Krkosek <martin.krkosek@otago.ac.nz >
UtahStateU
ForestLandscapeGenetics
PhD position: Forest Entomology or Aspen Landscape
Ecology Utah State University, Logan, Utah USA
We are seeking a PhD student for research on resilience
in forests of the US Intermountain West. The PhD stu-
dent should be interested in one of the projects below:
1) Mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae)
responses to a changing climate. The project topic
is exible but should be related to landscape genet-
ics/genomics and adaptive capacity in mountain pine
beetle populations of the Intermountain West. 2) As-
pen (Populus tremuloides) landscape ecology. The
project topic is exible but should be related to
landscape-scale genetics, genomics, cytogenetics, physi-
ology, or disturbance with an emphasis on understand-
ing adaptive capacity and persistence in aspen of the
Intermountain West.
The position could start as early as May 2013. Fellow-
ship support includes $20,000 per year for four years
along with tuition. The student will also participate
as a team member with other graduate students whose
research is focused on climate change and resilience in
forest ecosystems.
Applications must be completed by 25 January 2013,
but applicants should start with an email enquiry to
Drs. Barbara Bentz (bbentz@fs.fed.us) or Karen Mock
(karen.mock@usu.edu), who can provide additional de-
tails. Applicants should have an outstanding academic
record and preferably research experience resulting in
publication. Utah State University is an equal oppor-
tunity employer and we highly encourage applications
from underrepresented groups. Candidates are required
to be a citizen or national of the US.
With approximately 180 undergraduate and 80 grad-
uate students, USU's Wildland Resources DepartmentJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
has one of the largest and most active graduate research
programs at USU, and is widely recognized for research
that addresses natural resource ecology, management
and conservation issues in the Intermountain West.
The Department is associated with the USU Ecology
Center and the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station,
and enjoys strong collaborative links across the Logan
campus with the Departments of Watershed Sciences,
Environment and Society, Biology, Mathematics and
Statistics, and Plants, Soils and Climate, among oth-
ers. Additional information about the College of Natu-
ral Resources can be found at http://www.cnr.usu.edu.
Logan is a valley community of about 125,000 people
nestled in between the Wellsville Mountains and Bear
River Range in northeastern Utah. The many ski re-
sorts, lakes, rivers, and mountains in the region make
it one of the nest outdoor recreation environments in
the nation. The campus is 90 miles north of Salt Lake
City. With views of a natural area reserve from cam-
pus, the pristine natural environment of the area makes
Logan one of America's most attractive and aordable
university towns (http://www.tourcachevalley.com/).
karen.mock@usu.edu
Vienna PopulationGenetics
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The *Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics *has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from *highly motivated and out-
standing* students with a background in one of the
following disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolu-
tionary genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and
experimental population genetics. Students from re-
lated disciplines, such as physics or mathematics are
also welcome to apply.
Topics include:
- Inferring selection using *Drosophila* whole genome
sequence data - Analysing next generation sequencing
data and understanding the sampling properties of high
throughput technologies - The 1001 Genomes Project:
Population genetics of *Arabidopsis thaliana* - Speci-
ation genetics in European columbines (*Aquilegia*) -
Mutagenesis in the human germline - Population ge-
netic inference using Pool-Seq data - Evolution of gene
expression in *Drosophila* - Speciation genomics: map-ping of hybrid incompatibilities - Adaptive mutations
in C. elegans - Functionally important variation in lifes-
pan and other life history traits in natural and exper-
imental evolution populations - Mathematical models
of spatially varying selection in subdivided populations
- Statistical methods for detecting selective sweeps us-
ing genome- wide data - Population genetic estimators
from NGS data: assessing the power for methods for
genome scans of selection - The footprint of adaptive
gene introgression after secondary contact
Only *complete* applications (CV, motivation letter,
university certicates, indication of the two preferred
topics in a *single* pdf) received by *10.01.2013* will
be considered. Two letters of recommendation need to
be sent directly by the referees.
All information about the about currently available
topics, the training program, and the application pro-
cedure can be found at www.popgen-vienna.at Dr. Ju-
lia Hosp Vienna Graduate School of Population Genet-
ics Coordinator www.popgen-vienna.at c/o Institut f ur
Populationsgenetik Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1
A-1210 Vienna
Tel: +43 1 25077 4338 Fax: +43 1 25077 4390
julia.hosp@gmail.com
ZurichU Social evolution birds
MSc student positions in Biology, University of Zurich,
Switzerland.
Four MSc positions are available in the lab of Michael
Griesser to study the evolution of family living in birds.
We seek enthusiastic graduate students with a strong
interest in evolutionary biology and behavioural ecol-
ogy. The candidates should be prepared to work in-
dependently in the eld, and thus previous experience
with experimental eldwork, preferably with birds, is
valuable. A driver's license is required for all projects.
Current project opportunities include:
(1)Family dynamics in black wheatears (Oenanthe leu-
cura): Field experiments in birds have suggested that
ospring remain with their parents due to nepotistic
benets which arise from staying with the parents, and
thus ospring remain only as long as their family is
intact. In black wheatears, ospring can remain with
their parents over winter, and eld observations sug-
gest that ospring remain in their group even if their58 EvolDir January 1, 2013
father is replaced by a new male. We will use eld
experiments to investigate the role of changes in fam-
ily dynamics for the decision of ospring to remain in
their natal group. Fieldwork will take place in Guadix
(Southern Spain). Basic knowledge of Spanish is an ad-
vantage. The candidate will be supervised by Gretchen
Wagner and Michael Griesser.
(2)Parental investment and cost of reproduction in
birds: Life-history theory assumes that organisms
trade-o current against future reproduction to maxi-
mize their tness. We would like to test this hypothesis
in the eld by experimentally investigating the response
of avian breeders, with various life-histories, to an in-
creased cost of current reproduction. Fieldwork will
take place in Cordoba (Southern Spain). Basic knowl-
edge of Spanish is an advantage. The candidate will be
supervised by Emeline Mourocq and Michael Griesser.
(3)Change in predation risk assessment in rollers (Cora-
cias garrulus): In birds, the predation of dependent
ospring is the most important source of reproductive
failure. However, this pressure may change during the
reproductive cycle. We will use eld experiments to ad-
dress this question in a cavity breeding bird species, the
roller. Fieldwork will take place in Southern France in
collaboration with Patrick Mayet. Basic knowledge of
French is an advantage. The candidate will be super-
vised by Michael Griesser.
(4)Social life of a non-cooperative bird, the Vinous-
throated Parrotbill (Paradoxornis webbianus): A large
number of bird species are social but do not breed co-
operatively. Earlier studies revealed that direct tness
benets might be important in these systems, but they
remain rather unstudied. Here, we will study parrot-bills in an introduced population in Northern Italy to
test with eld experiments how kinship aects social
decisions of the birds during and outside the breeding
season. The project is a collaboration with Alessandra
Gagliardi, Altberto Botto and Yang Liu. Basic knowl-
edge of Italian is an advantage. The candidate will be
supervised by Michael Griesser.
Our research group is part of the Anthropological In-
stitute at the University of Zurich (www.aim.uzh.ch/-
index.html), where dierent research groups work on
the evolution of social dynamics and cooperative be-
haviour. The working language at the institute is En-
glish.
MSc studies at the University of Zurich take 2 years,
and cover both degree project work and courses.
For details see www.mnf.uzh.ch/en/studies/students/-
courses-of-study.html#c887. A BSc in Biology is
mandatory for enrolment. The current tuition fees
per semester for MSc students are 720CHF if living in
Switzerland), or 820CHF for all others.
For students interested starting this spring, the term
starts 18th February 2013, and thus an enrolment be-
fore that date is required. Thus, we consider candi-
dates submitting their application latest by 20st Jan-
uary 2013.
Please apply by sending your Curriculum Vitae,
cover letter with statement of research inter-
ests, and contact information of at least two
references Project (1): gretchen.wagner@uzh.ch
Project (2): emeline.mourocq@uzh.ch Project (3) and
(4):michael.griesser@uzh.ch
michael.griesser@uzh.ch
Jobs
AMNH NewYork AvianEvolutionSystematics . . . . . .59
AuburnU BioinformaticsComputationalBiol . . . . . . . 60
CaliforniaAcademy DipteraCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
Canberra 4 NatlCollections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
CityUNewYork EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
ClemsonU 2 TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
CornellU LabTechnician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64CornellU LabTechnician corrected link . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Edinburgh LabTech ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 65
Editor HumanPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
EmoryU EvolutionaryGenetics reminder . . . . . . . . . . .66
GoetheU Frankfurt FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
IBENS Paris EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ImperialCollege London 10 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 67January 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
ImperialCollege London 2 EcolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 69
ImperialCollege London 2 EcolEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . 70
ImperialCollege London Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
InstZoology Namibia FieldAssist BehaviouralPlasticity
71
LANGEBIO Mexico Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Leibniz TechAssist EvolutionaryAdaptations . . . . . . 72
MacEwanU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
MissouriBotanicalGarden ConservationGenetics . . . 74
PurdueU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ReedC Oregon AnimalBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
RutgersU Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
SangerInstitute Programmer MicrobialBioinformatics
76
UCalifornia Riverside PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
UCalifornia SantaBarbara UndergradResearch Evol-MatingSystem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UFreiburg 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UMichigan CollectionManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
UMinnesota MaizeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
UMinnesota SaintPaul MycologistCuratorOfFungi . 80
UNeuchatel FieldAssist HouseSparrows . . . . . . . . . . . .81
UNeuchatel FieldAssist OxiStress Birds . . . . . . . . . . . 82
USheeld 3 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UStirling 2 ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UWisconsin Madison LabTech PollinatorEvol . . . . . .83
UZurich FieldAssist BirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
U Zurich FieldAssist Swedish Lapland . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Vienna PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
YaleU Palenotology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
AMNH NewYork
AvianEvolutionSystematics
Assistant or Associate Curator of Ornithology Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History
The American Museum of Natural History (AMNH)
in New York is inviting applications for a curatorial
position in the Division of Vertebrate Zoology, Depart-
ment of Ornithology. This is a tenure track position
with the salary and duration of review for tenure be-
ing negotiable depending on the candidates professional
experience and accomplishment.
We seek candidates whose research addresses funda-
mental questions involving the systematics and evolu-
tionary biology of living birds. The successful candidate
will have an accomplished record of scholarship and
publication as well as capabilities for leadership within
the Division and Department. Candidates who can con-
tribute to Museum initiatives in genomics, phenomics
(large-scale phenotypic analysis), and to the global ex-
ploration of avian diversity are especially encouraged
to apply. Collection and/or eld-based research are
highly desirable. The ability to communicate eectively
within the scholarly community and to a larger public
is important. AMNH curators are expected to main-
tain a high level of productivity in original research,
to provide curatorial oversight of relevant collections,
and to seek extramural funding. Other responsibilities
may include serving on committees and participating in
Museum-sponsored exhibits and educational programs,
and in the Comparative Biology Ph.D. program at theRichard Gilder Graduate School. Candidates should
have postdoctoral or professional employment experi-
ence.
Interested candidates should submit electronically, via
a single email message, the following materials:
a) complete curriculum vitae, b) a statement detail-
ing research interests, accomplishments, future research
plans, and how you envision contributing to the Depart-
ment of Ornithology and to graduate and postgraduate
research and education, c) up to ve relevant publica-
tions (pdf les), and d) a list of dissertation advisors,
committee members, co-authors, and co-PIs on funded
grants during the preceding ve years.
In addition, each applicant should have three letters of
support sent to the Search Committee.
All materials should be submitted electronically, prefer-
ably as pdf les, to: Ornithological Search Commit-
tee, American Museum of Natural History, Central
Park West at 79th Street, New York, NY 10024-
5192, to: jlc@amnh.org (Subject line: Ornithology
Search Committee: your name). Inquires should be
directed to Joel Cracraft, Chair of the Search Commit-
tee: jlc@amnh.org. Applications and letters of support
should be received no later than January 15, 2013.
Joel Cracraft Chair, Division of Vertebrate Zoology
Lamont Curator and Curator-in-Charge Department
of Ornithology American Museum of Natural History
Central Park West at 79th Street New York, New York
10024
Phone: (212) 769-5633 Fax: (212) 769-5759 e-mail:
JLC@amnh.org cracraft@amnh.org
Professor, Richard Gilder Graduate School, AMNH
Adjunct Professor, Department of Ecology, Evolution60 EvolDir January 1, 2013
and Environmental Biology, Columbia University, New
York Adjunct Professor of Biology, City University of
New York, New York
Joel L Cracraft <jlc@amnh.org >
AuburnU
BioinformaticsComputationalBiol
Auburn University^ a Assistant Professor in Bioinformat-
ics/Computational Biology^ a College of Sciences and
Mathematics
The Department of Biological Sciences at Auburn
University invites applications for a tenure-track fac-
ulty appointment (9-month Assistant Professor) in
Bioinformatics and/or Computational Biology, be-
ginning Fall 2013. We seek candidates whose re-
search interests expand/enhance existing strengths
in life sciences at Auburn University, in particu-
lar comparative/functional/population genomics, reg-
ulation of gene expression, or molecular systemat-
ics/evolution/ecology. Those focused on develop-
ing novel computational approaches addressing core
problems in environmental sustainability, food sys-
tems/safety, and other strategic areas are also encour-
aged to apply.
Candidates are expected to establish an extramurally
funded, internationally recognized research program
that actively engages and trains graduate and un-
dergraduate students. Instructional responsibilities
will include development of undergraduate/graduate
courses promoting application of bioinformatic tools
and computational-biology principles. The new fac-
ulty member will be housed in the Bioinformatics lab of
the new Center for Advanced Science, Innovation, and
Commerce (CASIC) facility at the Auburn University
Research Park, and will play a role in overseeing the op-
eration/application of a new approximately $1 million
CASIC supercomputer cluster.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Bioinformatics, Bi-
ological Sciences, Computational Biology or a related
discipline, and excellent communication/ interpersonal
skills. Desired qualications include postdoctoral or
professional experience, a strong record of publication,
teaching experience, and potential for funding. The
candidate selected for this position must be able to meet
eligibility requirements to work in the United States at
the time the appointment is scheduled to begin, andcontinue working legally for the proposed term of em-
ployment. Women and minorities are strongly encour-
aged to apply.
Review of applications will begin 1 February 2013
and will continue until a suitable applicant is found.
Applicants should submit (electronically) a cover let-
ter emphasizing specic qualications, a curriculum
vitae, a description of research interests, a state-
ment of teaching philosophy/experience, and names
and contact information of at least 4 references to
bioinfo search@auburn.edu (Dr. Ken Halanych, Bioin-
formatics Search Committee Chair, Department of Bi-
ological Sciences, 101 Rouse Life Sciences Building,
Auburn University, AL 36849-5407). More information
about the department and its programs can be found
at: www.auburn.edu/biology ken@auburn.edu
CaliforniaAcademy DipteraCurator
POSITION DESCRIPTION Assistant/ Associate Cu-
rator^ aDiptera
Please apply directly to: The California Academy
of Sciences' SnapHire e-recruitment platform
(http://calacademy.snaphire.com/), accessing As-
sistant/Associate Curator - Diptera (9710).
Applications should include 1. A cover letter briey
summarizing their interest 2. A CV, with a list of pub-
lications 3. A statement of their research interests and
philosophy (not more than 1 page) 4. A statement of
their collection and curational interests and philosophy
(not more than 1 page) 5. Names of three references
Position Summary
California Academy of Sciences seeks a systematic en-
tomologist to conduct integrative, collections-based re-
search program focused on Diptera (ies). The can-
didate is expected to develop an internationally rec-
ognized research program utilizing modern methods,
which may include molecular systematics, genomics and
bioinformatics, in pursuing collections-based system-
atic research on Diptera, with relevance to phylogenet-
ics, genetics, evolution, morphology, behavior, biogeog-
raphy, biodiversity, ecology, conservation biology or re-
lated elds. Frequent publication of highly regarded
papers in competitive, peer-reviewed journals, curation
of collections in specialty area, service to the scientic
community in leadership capacities, acquisition of ex-
ternal funding, engagement in outreach activities, andJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
mentorship of students are expected.
ESSENTIAL DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES
A. RESEARCH: - Conducts research integrating di-
verse forms of data, including from scientic collections,
to answer questions related to the diversity of Life, in-
cluding its origins, evolutionary mechanisms, patterns
and processes, and its future. - Plans and executes orig-
inal research resulting in peer-reviewed scientic pub-
lications. - Plans, directs, and participates in scientic
expeditions designed to advance knowledge, facilitate
specimen collection, and conserve biodiversity. - Suc-
cessfully seeks extramural funding and grants to sup-
port research activity.
B. COLLECTIONS: - Is responsible for the strategic
growth and improvement of scientic collections. - Is
dedicated to maintaining and developing biodiversity
data associated with scientic collections. - Encourages
use of the collections by scholars engaged in research
program; requests new material from external sources
through donations, exchanges, and purchases; deter-
mines desirable additions to ll existing gaps and/or
build existing strengths. - Is responsible for professional
judgments involving de-accession and disposal of collec-
tion material.
C. TRAINING: - Actively trains and mentors the next
generation of scientists through supervision of postdoc-
toral fellows, graduate students and undergraduates. -
Dedicated to training scientists originating from devel-
oping nations and increasing participation of histori-
cally underrepresented groups in systematics and evo-
lutionary biology. - Engages in education activities for
Academy sta, including docents.
D. PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT: - Participates in a spec-
trum of activities that engage diverse audiences in the
excitement and process of scientic discovery, and con-
veys the importance of this work to the larger world.
- Activities may include: participation in the develop-
ment of exhibitions; presentation of popular lectures
and presentations; citizen science programs; mentoring
youth, adult, and family audiences; participation in ed-
ucation and outreach programs of the Academy; and
other forms of popularization and dissemination of sci-
ence. - Is responsible for review and scientic accuracy
of exhibit scripts and technical documentation.
E. FUNDRAISING AND MARKETING: - Participates
in fundraising and communication with donors through
the Academy's Development team and their donor cul-
tivation programs. - Works closely with Academy mar-
keting sta to leverage scientic discoveries into pop-
ular media and to elevate the visibility and impact of
the Academy's Research activities.F. ADMINISTRATION: - May serve as a member of
Academy-wide or Research Division committees. - May
serve as a Department Chair with primary responsibil-
ity for coordinating research and collection activities.
- As Chair, oversees setting departmental goals, bud-
get development, monitoring of budgetary activity. -
As Chair, is responsible for communicating goals and
other matters to department sta, and for communi-
cating departmental matters to Dean of Research. - As
Chair, is a member of the Research Executive Commit-
tee and the Academy Leadership Team.
G. MISCELLANEOUS SERVICE: - Establishes pro-
fessional contacts with other institutions and scientists,
and builds appropriate partnerships and collaborations.
- Participates in the activities of and/or provides advice
to local, national, and international scientic societies
and academic institutions.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Canberra 4 NatlCollections
RESEARCH SCIENTISTS - 4 X POSITIONS
* Join CSIRO, Australia's premier research and tech-
nology organisation and be a part of this new venture!
* A shared national vision for collections, providing en-
hanced integration and access.
* Be involved and support scientic discovery.
Location: Canberra, Australia
Salary: $89K-$120K (based on qualications and expe-
rience) plus up to 15.4% superannuation
Tenure: Indenite
Pre-requisite
* PhD and extensive postdoctoral experience in a rele-
vant eld.
CSIRO's National Collections
The Australian National Biological Collections Facil-
ity (ANBCF) within CSIRO comprises the Australian
National Wildlife Collection (ANWC), Australian Na-
tional Insect Collection (ANIC), Australian National
Herbarium (ANH) and other national collections (in-62 EvolDir January 1, 2013
cluding sh, algal, seed and wood collections). Each of
these collections has sta and resources (traditional re-
search specimens, living collections, cryofrozen tissues,
sound, and data). As part of an integrated build in
national capability in molecular systematics and evolu-
tionary research, we are currently seeking four positions
across ANBCF.
ACT12/03557 - Invertebrate - Molecular Systematics
This is an opportunity for a molecular systematist with
a special interest in insects and genomics to make a sub-
stantial contribution to the Australian National Insect
Collection (ANIC), the largest and most signicant col-
lection of Australian insects in the world. It is housed
in CSIRO's Ecosystem Sciences, which also conducts
research on many other aspects of insect biology (e.g.,
ecology, biocontrol, biosecurity and insects as model ge-
nomic systems).
The appointee will be expected to use molecular data in
research on the systematics and evolutionary biology of
insects. They will have research strengths in phylogeny,
systematics, and biogeography in the context of Aus-
tralian insects. Their taxon focus will preferably be on
the ANIC's collection strengths of beetles (Coleoptera),
moths and butteries (Lepidoptera), ies (Diptera) or
ants and wasps (Hymenoptera). The appointee will be
expected to interact with colleagues to more fully inte-
grate molecular data and analyses into ongoing research
projects.
ACT12/03558 - Vertebrate - Systematics and Collec-
tions
To be a relevant force in understanding how organisms
will adapt to environmental change we must continue
species discovery that inventories our fauna as well as
understands the genetic basis to adaptive mechanisms.
This position will meet these needs by intersecting rele-
vant disciplines of adaptation biology, evolutionary his-
tory, population genetics and systematics.
The appointee will be expected to lead in CSIRO's
embracing of genomics in evolutionary biology as ap-
plied to natural populations of vertebrates. They will
work at the intersection of phylogeny and adaptation,
systematics and population genetics, biogeography and
phylogeography especially as applied in the context
of Australo-Papuan vertebrates. Their focus will be
on the ANWC's vertebrate collections (especially birds
and mammals) but developing capacity in any ter-
restrial vertebrate group would be encouraged / sup-
ported. The appointee will be expected to develop a
eld program that will contribute to growth of the col-
lections.
ACT12/04633 - Plant Molecular Systematics and Evo-lutionary Genomics (x2)
We are seeking to appoint two early to mid-career sci-
entists with interests in undertaking research on the
Australian Flora in the areas of molecular systemat-
ics, evolutionary genomics and phylogeography. A solid
grounding in collections-based science is still seen as
essential to this work. The positions are based at the
Australian National Herbarium within the CSIRO's Di-
vision of Plant Industry, which also conducts research
on many other aspects of plant biology (e.g. ecology,
developmental biology, crop breeding, molecular biol-
ogy and genomics). The Australian National Herbar-
ium is a component of a joint venture in biodiversity
science between CSIRO and the Federal Department of
Sustainability, Environment, Water, Populations and
Communities, through the Australian National Botanic
Gardens.
About CSIRO
Australia is founding its future on science and innova-
tion. Its national science agency, CSIRO, is a power-
house house of ideas, technologies and skills for build-
ing prosperity, growth, health and sustainability. It
serves governments, industries, business and communi-
ties across the nation. Find out more! www.csiro.au
. For further information and to apply online for the
above positions please visit our website at CSIRO CA-
REERS (http://csiro.nga.net.au/cp/index.cfm?event=
jobs.home), choose \Jobs Search" and insert the Job
Reference Number where indicated.
Megan.Gardiner@csiro.au
CityUNewYork EvoDevo
Hello all,
Please see the announcement below and feel free to con-
tact me with any questions at ealter@york.cuny.edu.
We are particularly interested in applicants with an
evo-devo research focus.
Best, Liz
FACULTY VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT
York College of The City University of New York
(CUNY) invites applications for a tenure-track position
at the Assistant or Associate Professor level in Devel-
opmental Biology to begin Fall semester 2013. Instruc-
tional responsibilities include lecture and laboratory
courses in developmental biology as well as other majorJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
and non-major courses as needed by the Department.
Candidates must demonstrate a strong interest in and
commitment to undergraduate teaching and the abil-
ity to develop and maintain an active research program
supported by external funding. The academic program,
instructional and research equipment, and grant pro-
grams available at York College can be found at the
following link: http://www.york.cuny.edu/academics/-
departments/biology . QUALIFICATIONS Ph.D. de-
gree or equivalent in Biology or related eld; postdoc-
toral experience preferred. Also required are the abil-
ity to teach successfully, demonstrated scholarship or
achievement, and ability to cooperate with others for
the good of the institution.
COMPENSATION CUNY oers faculty a competitive
compensation and benets package covering health in-
surance, pension and retirement benets, paid parental
leave, and savings programs. We also provide mentor-
ing and support for research, scholarship, and publi-
cation as part of our commitment to ongoing faculty
professional development.
HOW TO APPLY Candidates for faculty positions
must provide a CV/resume.
Additionally, applicants should provide a statement of
research and teaching experience, and the contact infor-
mation for three professional references. Please submit
your application online through this job board as fol-
lows: - Go to www.cuny.edu and click on Employment
- Select \Apply Now" then create or login to a user ac-
count and provide the requested information - Click on
Job Postings on CUNYrst - Click Search job listings -
Click on More search options - Search by Job Opening
ID number 6535
In order to be considered for this position, applicants
must submit the items noted above and upload every-
thing as ONE document in rtf, doc, or pdf format.
CLOSING DATE January 8, 2013 JOB SEARCH CAT-
EGORY CUNY Job Posting: Faculty EQUAL EM-
PLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY We are committed to
enhancing our diverse academic community by actively
encouraging people with disabilities, minorities, veter-
ans, and women to apply. We take pride in our pluralis-
tic community and continue to seek excellence through
diversity and inclusion. EO/AA Employer.
S. Elizabeth Alter Assistant Professor Biology De-
partment and the Graduate Center of CUNY York
College / CUNY 94 - 20 Guy R. Brewer Blvd, Ja-
maica, NY 11451 Tel: 718-262-2732 (Oce) Tel: 718-
262-2637 (Lab) Fax: 718-262-2369 Website: http://-
www.york.cuny.edu/portal college/alter-susan-e
EAlter@york.cuny.eduClemsonU 2 TeachingEvolution
BIOLOGY INSTRUCTION (Assistant Professor)
The Department of Biological Sciences at Clemson Uni-
versity invites applications for two tenure-track As-
sistant Professor faculty positions to begin in August
2013. The Department seeks faculty with strong com-
mitments to the teaching, undergraduate research, and
educational outreach missions of Clemson University.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in the biological sci-
ences. Evidence of excellence in teaching is essential.
Experience in the development of introductory biol-
ogy curricula and experience and interest in inquiry-
based approaches in biology instruction are desired.
The successful candidates will be expected to partic-
ipate in the development and teaching of our introduc-
tory biology courses and the advising of undergradu-
ate students. In addition, successful candidates will
be expected to develop a research program on under-
graduate instruction or undergraduate research train-
ing. The Department of Biological Sciences has out-
standing outreach education programs that provide re-
search opportunities through the nationally-funded SC
Life and DNA Learning Center programs. Further
information about departmental resources, programs,
and faculty research interests are available at http://-
www.clemson.edu/cas/departments/biosci/ . In a sin-
gle pdf le, compile a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, a
statement of teaching interests and philosophy, a state-
ment of research interests in undergraduate instruction
or research training, and the names of three references.
In addition, provide pdf les of up to three publications.
Send all application documents to Robert J. Kosinski
(e-mail: rjksn@clemson.edu), Department of Biological
Sciences, 132 Long Hall, Clemson University, Clemson,
SC 29634-0314. For full consideration please submit
your application no later than February 15, 2013. Re-
view of applications will continue until the positions are
lled.
Clemson University is an Armative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer and does not discriminate against
any individual or group of individuals on the basis of
age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, re-
ligion, sexual orientation, veteran status or genetic in-
formation.
MPTACEK@clemson.edu64 EvolDir January 1, 2013
CornellU LabTechnician
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Cornell University Lab
Technician III - Job # 19196
Job Description
Research position in evolutionary biology/herpetology
lab. Provide tech support for molecular systemat-
ics and comparative population genetics/genomics re-
search. Specic responsibilities include DNA isolation,
PCR, library construction, sample preparation, edit-
ing sequence data, using genomic database and search-
ing tools, running phylogenetic and population genetic
software, and data interpretation. General responsi-
bilities include maintaining and purchasing laboratory
supplies, assisting with grant proposal and manuscript
preparation, and assisting with student training. This
is a one-year appointment, renewable for a second year
upon satisfactory performance. Endowed college em-
ployee benets apply.
Qualications
BS in biology-related eld strongly preferred with at
least one year of experience in a molecular biology or
molecular systematics environment. Working knowl-
edge of standard molecular lab protocols and basic eld
biology techniques. Neatness, attention to detail, good
organizational skills and ability to manage people and
be a team leader. Some weekend/evening hours will be
necessary for eld collecting trips, and time-sensitive
lab procedures.
Applications will be accepted through January 30, 2013
Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Kelly Zamudio at
krz2@cornell.edu.
Located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell University is an equal
opportunity, armative action educator and employer.
To apply please visit: https://cornellu.taleo.net/-
careersection/10164/jobsearch.ftl Job Number 19196
Kelly R. Zamudio Professor of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2701
kelly.zamudio@cornell.eduCornellU LabTechnician corrected
link
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Cornell University Lab
Technician III - Job # 19196
Job Description
Research position in evolutionary biology/herpetology
lab. Provide tech support for molecular systemat-
ics and comparative population genetics/genomics re-
search. Specic responsibilities include DNA isolation,
PCR, library construction, sample preparation, edit-
ing sequence data, using genomic database and search-
ing tools, running phylogenetic and population genetic
software, and data interpretation.
General responsibilities include maintaining and pur-
chasing laboratory supplies, assisting with grant pro-
posal and manuscript preparation, and assisting with
student training. This is a one-year appointment, re-
newable for a second year upon satisfactory perfor-
mance. Endowed college employee benets apply.
Qualications
BS in biology-related eld strongly preferred with at
least one year of experience in a molecular biology or
molecular systematics environment. Working knowl-
edge of standard molecular lab protocols and basic eld
biology techniques. Neatness, attention to detail, good
organizational skills and ability to manage people and
be a team leader. Some weekend/evening hours will be
necessary for eld collecting trips, and time-sensitive
lab procedures.
Applications will be accepted through January 30, 2013
Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Kelly Zamudio at
krz2@cornell.edu.
Located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell University is an equal
opportunity, armative action educator and employer.
To apply please visit: https://cornellu.taleo.net/-
careersection/10164/jobsearch.ftl Job Number 19196
OR:
https://cornellu.taleo.net/careersection/-
jobdetail.ftl?job=3D325109&lang=3Den&sns id=-
mailto#.UNNP0e20mh8.mailto Kelly Zamudio
Cornell University Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
kelly.zamudio@cornell.eduJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
Edinburgh LabTech
ConservationGenetics
WildGenes Conservation Genetics Laboratory Techni-
cian As the Laboratory Technician, you will report to
the Head of WildGenes, working within the Society's
Conservation Programmes department. You will carry
out laboratory DNA analysis and support with the day
to day running of the facility. The successful candidate
will be required to undertake DNA extraction and am-
plication of samples in a robust and timely manner.
They will be exible in their approach and carry out a
variety of other tasks as required. As a valued mem-
ber of the Conservation Programmes department, the
post-holder will contribute to the development of the
Society in achieving its Mission and Aims.
About you You will be educated to degree level, or hold
equivalent relevant experience in biological, biochemical
or environmental sciences. Previous experience of labo-
ratory work is desirable whilst excellent working knowl-
edge of Microsoft Oce is essential. The successful can-
didate should have sucient knowledge-based skills to
conduct DNA extraction. A full UK valid driving li-
cence is required as is the ability to work in the UK.
Other skills such as note-taking would also be an advan-
tage. With an ability to communicate eectively across
a wide range of internal sta and researchers, you will
be able to pursue projects eectively with minimum
supervision. This role would suit an eective commu-
nicator who demonstrates a quality approach to work.
About us The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland
(RZSS) owns and manages Edinburgh Zoo and the
Highland Wildlife Park. Of equal importance is our
excellent international reputation for our conserva-
tion and education programmes and we are looking
to the future with condence. We've been a charity
since our founding in 1909, Registered charity number:
SC004064
This is a full time position (37.5 hours per week,
Monday- Friday) Closing date for the above position
is Thursday 10 January 2013
If you have queries regarding the role or would like
further details, please email Ross McEwing at rm-
cewing@rzss.org.uk
Closing date: 10 Jan 2013
Dr. Ross McEwing Senior ScientistWildGenes Laboratory Royal Zoological Society of
Scotland Edinburgh EH12 6TS UNITED KINGDOM
Tel: +44 (0)131 3140388 Fax:+44 (0)131
3140376 www.rzss.org.uk/research Ross McEwing
<rmcewing@rzss.org.uk >
Editor HumanPopulationGenetics
Human Biology: The International Journal of Popula-
tion Genetics and Anthropology and the ocial journal
of the American Association of Anthropological Genet-
ics is now accepting applications or nominations for the
position of Editor-in-Chief.
A worldwide forum for state-of-the-art ideas, methods,
and techniques in the eld, Human Biology focuses
on genetics in its broadest sense. Included under this
rubric are: genetic epidemiology, human population ge-
netics, evolutionary and genetic demography, quantita-
tive genetics, evolutionary biology, ancient DNA stud-
ies, biological diversity interpreted in terms of adapta-
tion (biometry, physical anthropology), and interdisci-
plinary research linking biological and cultural diversity
(inferred from linguistic variability, ethnological diver-
sity, archaeological evidence, etc.). The journal is pub-
lished bimonthly, with six numbers in one volume per
year.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for soliciting and re-
vising manuscripts for publication. In addition, the
Editor-in-Chief is responsible for communication with
authors; making editorial decisions regarding accep-
tance, rejection, and the extent of revision of reviewed
manuscripts; and securing copyright agreements from
authors of accepted manuscripts. The Editor-in-Chief
has nal responsibility for the editorial content of Hu-
man Biology.
The application for Editor-in-Chief should include the
following:
1. Current CV 2. Letter of application on: a. the
applicant's goals for the journal and how the applicant
will reach said goals b. how the applicant will assist in
increasing the journal's Impact Factor c. how the appli-
cant will expand the reach of the journal internationally
and to new scholars 3. Outline of possible institutional
support
The new Editor-In-Chief will take control of the jour-
nal on September 1, 2013, and the incoming Editor-in-
Chief will work closely with the current Editor for three66 EvolDir January 1, 2013
months prior to assuming the position. The search com-
mittee will begin review of applications in March.
All queries and applications should be sent to Alicia
Vonderharr, Journals Manager, at:
Wayne State University Press 4809 Woodward Ave.
Detroit, MI 48201
Email: aliciav@wayne.edu
Lauren Crocker Journals Marketing, Sales & Order
Fulllment Coordinator Wayne State University Press
4809 Woodward Ave. Detroit, MI 48201
Phone: 313-577-4603 Email: lau-
ren.crocker@wayne.edu
wsupress.wayne.edu
Follow Wayne State University Press on Facebook or
Twitter !
Lauren Crocker <lauren.crocker@wayne.edu >
EmoryU EvolutionaryGenetics
reminder
Tenure Track Position in Evolutionary Genetics
The Department of Biology at Emory University seeks
an investigator who studies the mechanisms of evolu-
tion. We will consider applicants holding a PhD or
equivalent degree with training and experience in a wide
range of specializations including, but not limited to,
evolutionary genetics, molecular genetics, population
genetics, molecular ecology, experimental systems biol-
ogy, and functional genomics/bioinformatics. This po-
sition is for a tenure-track Assistant Professor, although
an appointment at a higher rank will be considered in
exceptional circumstances.
Applicants are expected to establish a vigorous, extra-
murally funded research program and enthusiastically
participate in the undergraduate and graduate teaching
missions of the Biology Department and Interdepart-
mental Graduate Program in Population Biology, Ecol-
ogy and Evolution (http://www.biomed.emory.edu/-
PROGRAM SITES/PBEE/)
In addition to a CV and publication list, applicants
should submit a single PDF le with the following: 1. A
statement of their current and soon anticipated research
and approach with a clear description of the questions
they are addressing. This statement should explicitly
indicate the signicance of their research to evolution-ary biology at large.
2. The applicant should describe how they will con-
tribute to the Department1s teaching mission at both
the undergraduate and graduate level. 3. A list of
names and e-mail addresses of ve potential referees.
Do not include letters of recommendation with your
application or request that letters of recommendation
be sent without being solicited by the Department of
Biology.
The Emory University Biology Department (http://-
www.biology.emory.edu/) is housed in a modern, well-
appointed building. The Biology faculty is productive,
well funded, and actively engaged in the research and
teaching missions of the University. The successful ap-
plicant will have access to state-of-the-art facilities, re-
sources, and academic interactions with over 300 fac-
ulty engaged in biological research in the College and
Medical School at Emory University and regional in-
stitutions including the Centers for Disease Control.
Emory is located on a beautiful campus at the periph-
ery of the City of Atlanta, a vibrant, aordable, and
culturally diverse city in the wooded foothills of the
Appalachian Mountains.
Applications should be submitted electronically to evo-
biolsrch@emory.edu. Review of applications will begin
January 3, 2013. Any questions can be addressed to
the same email address.
ngerard@emory.edu
GoetheU Frankfurt FungalEvolution
Goethe-University Frankfurt, Department of Bio-
sciences, Institute of Molecular Biosciences invites ap-
plications for the following position: Junior Professor-
ship (W1) for Biochemistry and Biotechnology of Fungi
We are seeking a scientist with research activities com-
plementary to the activities in the LOEWE priority
program \Integrated Fungal Research". The newly
established priority program brings together scientists
from four hessian universities and a Leibnitz Institute,
all working in dierent areas of mycology ranging from
fungal biodiversity, molecular biology and genomics to
applied aspects of fungal biotechnology and biochem-
istry. Possible areas of research could be biochemistry
and biotechnology of ribosomal peptides, alkaloids, un-
usual amino acids, or sugars in fungi, the production
of biotechnologically relevant products in fungal modelJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
organisms (like Aspergillus, Penicillium, Yarrowia or
Rhodotorula), or fungal cultivation technologies. Can-
didates must have an excellent publication track record.
The successful applicant is expected to engage in cross-
disciplinary research activities, as well as to compete
for research funding actively. Willingness to participate
in the LOEWE priority program \Integrated Fungal
Research" is expected. The position comes with ade-
quate administrative and teaching obligations within
the Institute of Molecular Biosciences. The junior
professor will be hired for a period of three years.
An extension for another three years can be granted
subject to a successful evaluation. The designated
salary for the position is based on \W1" on the Ger-
man university scale. For further information regard-
ing the general conditions for professorship appoint-
ments, please see: http://www.uni-frankfurt.de/ ak-
tuelles/ausschreibung/professuren/index.html. Quali-
ed scientists are invited to submit their applications
accompanied by the usual information, such as CV, de-
grees and certicates, list of publications, details about
teaching and international experience, information on
grant applications and a concept for future research and
teaching within three weeks of publication of this an-
nouncement. Please send applications preferentially by
E-Mail in a single PDF le to the Dean of the Faculty
of Biosciences, Prof. Dr. Anna Starzinski-Powitz, Jo-
hann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt, Maxvon-
Laue-Strae 9, 60438 Frankfurt/M. Germany, E-Mail:
dekanat15@bio.uni-frankfurt.de.
Details regarding the LOEWE priority program \Inte-
grative Fungal Research" can be obtained from Prof.
Dr. Helge B. Bode (h.bode@bio.uni-frankfurt.de) or
Prof. Dr. Marco Thines (thines@bio.uni-frankfurt.de).
Many Thanks!
Nice greetings, Jenny Koeppchen
Jenny Koeppchen <Jenny.Koeppchen@senckenberg.de >
IBENS Paris EvolutionaryGenomics
The Institute of Biology of the Ecole Normale
Sup erieure is seeking to recruit 2 research groups.
http://www.ibens.ens.fr/spip.php?rubrique7&lang=-
en The Institute of Biology of the Ecole Normale
Sup erieure \IBENS" was created in 2010. It is aliated
to the ENS, the CNRS and Inserm institutional bodies.
The research sta of the IBENS comprises 24 indepen-
dent groups organized in four sections: DevelopmentalBiology, Neuroscience, Functional Genomics, and Envi-
ronmental and Evolutionary Genomics. Researchers at
the IBENS benet from common strategic investments
including optical imaging and electron microscopy,
high-throughput sequencing, computing, protein pro-
duction, animal (mice, rats, zebrash, xenopus) and
plant facilities. Multidisciplinary research is further
reinforced by local interactions and collaborations with
the departments of physics, chemistry, mathematics,
and cognitive sciences at the ENS.
The selection will be performed in two stages: short-
listing in March 2013 and interviews by the Scien-
tic Advisory Board of IBENS in May 2013. Appli-
cants should send a CV (2 pages), a summary of sci-
entic achievements and proposed research program (6
pages). These documents and three letters of recom-
mendation mailed directly by their authors should be
sent to: ibens.newresearchgroups@biologie.ens.fr For
further information, please contact Dani ele Murciano
(daniele.murciano@ens.fr, +33 1 32 44 37 42). DEAD-
LINE FOR APPLICATIONS FEBRUARY 1st, 2013
Marie-Anne Felix Institute of Biology of the Ecole
Normale Sup erieure (IBENS) 46 rue d'Ulm, 75230
Paris cedex 05, France 8th oor. Oce: Room
801. Lab: Room 817. mail: felix@biologie.ens.fr
Tel: +33-1-44-32-39-44 http://www.ibens.ens.fr/-
spip.php?article256&lang=en STRAINS: http://-
www.justbio.com/worms/index.php Marie-Anne Felix
<felix@biologie.ens.fr >
ImperialCollege London 10
Biodiversity
Imperial College London
Silwood Park Campus
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Department of Life Sciences
Grand Challenges in Ecosystems and the Environment
(Lecturers/Readers/Chairs)
Lecturer salary: $44,150 - $49,200 per annum Reader:
minimum starting salary: $54,250 per annum Chair:
minimum starting salary: $68,970 per annum
Up to 10 positions to be appointed within the Faculty
of Natural Sciences
o Imperial College London is launching a major initia-68 EvolDir January 1, 2013
tive to tackle the grand challenges and opportunities
facing ecological systems and the environment.
o The initiative will appoint a large cohort of scientists
in a exible set up, from permanent academics to sab-
baticals and members of collaborative working groups.
o This initiative will benet from and invest in long-
term eld experiments both at Silwood Park and
around the world, as well as in- house, high-tech labo-
ratory facilities.
o Bringing together some of the top leaders across dis-
ciplines, the initiative will strive to ensure the future
wellbeing of humanity and ecological systems in a world
of global change.
o The initiative will involve groups from across the Fac-
ulties of Natural Sciences, Medicine and Engineering,
the Grantham Institute for Climate Change, and the
Centre for Environmental Policy.
We are seeking scientists at all levels (Lectur-
ers/Readers/Chairs) to develop innovative projects ad-
dressing challenges in areas including the following:
* Land-use change and interactions between ecosys-
tem processes, biodiversity and human health and
wellbeing; Sustainable food and water supplies;
Human-environment-biosphere interactions; Environ-
mental medicine; the response of ecosystems to a chang-
ing climate & broader environment, and their feedback
on this change.
Managing focal species in complex ecosystems; Dis-
ease, pest, invasive and/or vector biology; Ecological
synthetic biology and genomics.
Predicting, monitoring and mitigating environmental
and biotic change across local to global scales; Ecosys-
tem science, including modelling, eld and laboratory
experiments; Remote sensing ecology and automated
monitoring systems; Ecological engineering and predic-
tion.
The initiative will be based in the Department of
Life Sciences at the Silwood Park Campus (http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/silwoodparkcampus), with the
option of joint aliations with other departments where
applicable.
Reporting to the Head of the Department, you will be
expected to develop new teaching activities including
projects and courses, and contribute to teaching and
administration within Department. You will be ex-
pected to contribute to the assurance and enhancement
of the quality of teaching, learning and research within
the Department, in line with the College's standards.
You will also be required to raise nancial support,
and manage your own innovative research programmeof international quality in areas of Ecosystems, Envi-
ronment and/or Human Populations.
The successful candidates will be expected to have a
good honours degree and a doctorate (or equivalent)
in a relevant subject area. You must also be able to
demonstrate a strong research record in ecosystems, en-
vironment and/or human populations, commensurate
with the current stage of your career, together with
a proven track record of high quality independent re-
search evidenced by high quality publications in peer
reviewed journals. You must have the potential to raise
signicant research funding from UK and EU sources
to maintain and enhance the College's leading research
activities. Experience of teaching at undergraduate and
postgraduate level is also a \must have", and a record of
successful postgraduate student supervision would also
be an advantage.
You must have excellent interpersonal, verbal and writ-
ten communication skills with an ability to convey ideas
and concepts clearly and eectively to a range of audi-
ences through a variety of methods and media. You
must have the ability to lead a research team, man-
age the nance and your sta. You must also have the
ability to communicate and inspire students.
For appointment to the position of Reader, in addition
to the above, you must also be able to demonstrate an
exceptionally strong research record, alongside a proven
track record of securing research funding. You will also
be expected to have a extensive experience in post-
graduate training and undergraduate teaching across
a range of subjects within (or close to) the elds of
ecology, evolution and environmental science, together
with a track record of successful postgraduate supervi-
sion and postdoctoral mentoring.
For appointment to the position of Chair, in addition
to the above, you will be expected to demonstrate an
international reputation for research and innovation in
ecosystems, environment and/or human populations,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ImperialCollege London 2
EcolEvolutionJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
Imperial College London
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Department of Life Sciences
Division of Ecology and Evolution
Two Academic Positions in Ecology and Evolution
(Lecturer/Reader/Chair)
Lecturer salary in the range $44,150 - $49,200 per an-
num Reader minimum starting salary: $54,250 per an-
num Chair minimum starting salary: $68,970 per an-
num
The Division of Ecology and Evolution is looking to
make two academic appointments in the broad areas of
Ecology & Evolution. The post will be based at the
Silwood Park Campus (http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
silwoodparkcampus).
The successful candidates will contribute to the Divi-
sion's goal of improving fundamental scientic under-
standing of biological and ecological processes and sys-
tems. The research will focus on solving ecological and
evolutionary challenges and could t into a range of dis-
ciplines, including, but not restricted to, ecology, evo-
lution, genomics, agro-biology, or conservation science.
The Division is seeking to appoint candidates with ex-
pertise in relevant areas of ecology, evolution, or conser-
vation science. We anticipate that these appointments
will be at Lecturer level. However, there is potential
for the appointments to be made at more senior aca-
demic levels (Reader/Chair), and we welcome applica-
tions from more senior researchers.
Reporting to the Head of the Department, you will be
expected to identify opportunities in Ecology and Evo-
lution and contribute to teaching and administration
within the Division and Department. You will be re-
quired to raise nancial support, manage your own in-
novative research programme of international quality in
the areas of ecosystems, the environment, and their in-
teraction with human populations that would expand
on and complement existing activities within the De-
partment of Life Sciences.
The successful candidate will be expected to have a
good honours degree and a doctorate (or equivalent)
in a relevant subject area. You will also have an in-
ternational reputation for research and innovation in
ecosystems, environment and/or human populations
commensurate with the current stage of your career,
underpinned by a record of rst-class journal publica-
tion. You must also be able to demonstrate the poten-
tial to raise signicant research funding from UK and
EU sources to maintain and enhance the College's lead-
ing research activities. Experience of teaching at under-graduate and Masters' level, and postgraduate student
supervision, are not essential, but would be an advan-
tage. You must have excellent interpersonal, verbal and
written communication skill with an ability to convey
ideas and concepts clearly and eectively to a range of
audiences through a variety of methods and media. You
must have the ability to lead a research team, manage
the nance and your sta. You must also have the abil-
ity to communicate and inspire students as you will be
expected to contribute to our undergraduate and post-
graduate teaching programmes. For appointment to
Reader, in addition to the above, candidates must also
have an exceptionally strong research record in ecolog-
ical systems, environment and/or human populations
or a closely related subject, and a proven track record
of securing research funding. You will also be expected
to have extensive experience in postgraduate teaching
and undergraduate teaching across a range of subjects
within (or close to) the elds of Ecology, Evolution or
Environmental Science, together with a track record of
successful postgraduate student supervision and post-
doctoral mentoring.
For appointment to the position of Chair, in addition to
the above, you will also be expected to have an interna-
tional reputation for your research, and strong leader-
ship qualities in areas which enhance and extend those
of the Group.
Previous applicants and/or holders of independent fel-
lowships are welcome to apply.
For an informal discussion about the post
please contact Professor Vincent Savolainen
(v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk).
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2012
256 JT into \Keywords"). Please complete and upload
an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply on-
line, please contact Mrs Diana Anderson by email
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk to request an application
form.
Closing date: 31 January 2012
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We
are also an Athena Bronze SWAN Award winner, a
Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Two Ticks Em-
ployer.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >70 EvolDir January 1, 2013
ImperialCollege London 2
EcolEvolution 2
Imperial College London
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Department of Life Sciences
Division of Ecology and Evolution
Two Academic Positions in Ecology and Evolution
(Lecturer/Reader/Chair)
Lecturer salary in the range $44,150 - $49,200 per an-
num Reader minimum starting salary: $54,250 per an-
num Chair minimum starting salary: $68,970 per an-
num
The Division of Ecology and Evolution is looking to
make two academic appointments in the broad areas of
Ecology & Evolution. The post will be based at the
Silwood Park Campus (http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
silwoodparkcampus).
The successful candidates will contribute to the Divi-
sion's goal of improving fundamental scientic under-
standing of biological and ecological processes and sys-
tems. The research will focus on solving ecological and
evolutionary challenges and could t into a range of dis-
ciplines, including, but not restricted to, ecology, evo-
lution, genomics, agro-biology, or conservation science.
The Division is seeking to appoint candidates with ex-
pertise in relevant areas of ecology, evolution, or conser-
vation science. We anticipate that these appointments
will be at Lecturer level. However, there is potential
for the appointments to be made at more senior aca-
demic levels (Reader/Chair), and we welcome applica-
tions from more senior researchers.
Reporting to the Head of the Department, you will be
expected to identify opportunities in Ecology and Evo-
lution and contribute to teaching and administration
within the Division and Department. You will be re-
quired to raise nancial support, manage your own in-
novative research programme of international quality in
the areas of ecology, evolution or conservation science
that would expand on and complement existing activi-
ties within the Department of Life Sciences.
The successful candidate will be expected to have a
good honours degree and a doctorate (or equivalent)
in a relevant subject area. You will also have an in-ternational reputation for research and innovation in
ecology, evolution or conservation science commensu-
rate with the current stage of your career, underpinned
by a record of rst-class journal publication. You must
also be able to demonstrate the potential to raise sig-
nicant research funding from UK and EU sources to
maintain and enhance the College's leading research ac-
tivities. Experience of teaching at undergraduate and
Masters' level, and postgraduate student supervision,
are not essential, but would be an advantage. You
must have excellent interpersonal, verbal and written
communication skill with an ability to convey ideas and
concepts clearly and eectively to a range of audiences
through a variety of methods and media. You must
have the ability to lead a research team, manage the
nance and your sta. You must also have the abil-
ity to communicate and inspire students as you will be
expected to contribute to our undergraduate and post-
graduate teaching programmes. For appointment to
Reader, in addition to the above, candidates must also
have an exceptionally strong research record in ecology,
evolution or conservation science or a closely related
subject, and a proven track record of securing research
funding. You will also be expected to have extensive
experience in postgraduate teaching and undergradu-
ate teaching across a range of subjects within (or close
to) the elds of Ecology, Evolution or Environmental
Science, together with a track record of successful post-
graduate student supervision and postdoctoral mentor-
ing.
For appointment to the position of Chair, in addition to
the above, you will also be expected to have an interna-
tional reputation for your research, and strong leader-
ship qualities in areas which enhance and extend those
of the Group.
Previous applicants and/or holders of independent fel-
lowships are welcome to apply.
For an informal discussion about the post
please contact Professor Vincent Savolainen
(v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk).
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2012
256 JT into \Keywords"). Please complete and upload
an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply on-
line, please contact Mrs Diana Anderson by email
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk to request an application
form.
Closing date: 31 January 2012January 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We
are also an Athena Bronze SWAN Award winner, a
Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Two Ticks Em-
ployer.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialCollege London
Bioinformatics
I have three posts just advertised which i think (at least
the rst two) would be of interest to the EvolDir.
The rst two (Bioinformatics engineer and Web engi-
neer) are part of a Wellcome funded project to further
develop web applications for the storage, processing,
analysis and visualisation of very large sets of micro-
bial whole genome sequences, via the web.
Further details and particulars can be found here:
Bioinformatics Software Engineer
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AFQ688/bioinformatics-
software-engineer/ Web Application Software Engi-
neer:
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AFQ685/web-application-
software-engineer/ The third post is part
of an FP7 grant entitled 'CitizenCyberLab'
(www.citizencyberlab.com) and is for a Web/Mobile
software Engineer to focus on translational HTML5
web/mobile apps for device-independant data gather-
ing (see www.epicollect.net)
This project is a collaboration between CERN, UN-
OSAT, Uni Paris-Descartes, Uni Geneva, UCL and Im-
perial
Further details can be found here:
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AFQ690/web-mobile-
software-engineer all the best
David
David Aanensen PhD Lecturer in Bioinformatics Dept.
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College Lon-
don W2 1PG, UK t:+44(0)7590250562 s:daanensen
\Aanensen, David" <d.aanensen@imperial.ac.uk >InstZoology Namibia FieldAssist
BehaviouralPlasticity
The Tsaobis Baboon Project is a long-term study of
desert baboons in Namibia. Based at the Institute of
Zoology (the research arm of the Zoological Society of
London), and aliated with the Gobabeb Training and
Research Centre (Namibia), our aim is to carry out
fundamental research in behavioural ecology and pop-
ulation ecology, and to inform conservation policy and
practice for social species.
We are seeking to recruit up to six volunteer eldwork-
ers for the 2013 eld season, which will run from early
May to late October. Two positions will run the full
six-month eld season (approx. May - October), while
the remaining posts will be divided evenly between the
rst and last three-month periods. The eldwork will
primarily involve daily follows of baboon troops on foot,
collecting behavioural data from individually recognis-
able animals and their associated ecological conditions.
Research in 2013 will be focused on the following two
themes:
- Behavioural plasticity and the tness eects of social
information use - Sexual conicts over reproduction in
social groups
Since eldworkers will be split equally between these
themes, applicants should either express a preference,
or state \no preference". Further information about
the research project, the volunteer eldworker posi-
tions, and the application procedure can be found on
the Project's webpages:
www.zsl.org/tsaobisbaboonproject ***The deadline
for applications is 9am Monday 7th January 2013***
Interviews will be held at the Institute of Zoology on
Monday 14th and Tuesday 15th January 2013. Tele-
phone / Skype interviews will be possible for overseas
applicants.
Alex Lee PhD Candidate Institute of Zoology and Im-
perial College London
alexander.lee09@imperial.ac.uk72 EvolDir January 1, 2013
LANGEBIO Mexico Biodiversity
The National Laboratory of Genomics for Biodiversity
of Mexico (Langebio) is a Unit of the Centro de In-
vestigacin y de Estudios Avanzados (CINVESTAV),
a federal government institution devoted to basic and
applied research. Langebios mandate is to conduct top-
ranked research and graduate education, while promot-
ing genomic knowledge for the protection and sustain-
able use of Mexican biodiversity. Research at Lange-
bio is conducted by an international team of scien-
tists, with an emphasis on collaboration and multidis-
ciplinary studies.
We invite applications, rank open, for Professor-
Investigator. The successful applicant will utilize
molecular, computational and/or genomic approaches
to address fundamental questions about the mecha-
nisms underlying the evolution and maintenance of bio-
diversity and will develop an internationally recognized
research program.
While there is no restriction as to taxa, priority will
be given to those applicants whose research includes
Mexicos wealth of biodiversity.
(http://www.langebio.cinvestav.mx)
Applicants should send a CV, PDFs of their three most
important publications, and a three page description of
their scientic accomplishments and proposed research
program. Junior applicants should arrange for three
reference letters to be sent separately.
Review of applications will begin February 15th,
2013. Send applications to the attention of
Dr. Luis Herrera-Estrella, Langebio-CINVESTAV,
Irapuato, Guanajuato, MEXICO, E-mail: mber-
nal@langebio.cinvestav.mx
Therese Markow, Ph.D. Professor-Investigator
Therese Markow <tmarkow@ucsd.edu >
Leibniz TechAssist
EvolutionaryAdaptations
Advertisement of vacancies The Leibniz Institute forZoo and Wildlife Research (IZW) in Berlin is Ger-
many's premier wildlife research institute. The IZW
focuses on the life histories and mechanisms of evolu-
tionary adaptations of mammals and birds, their limits
and their conservation in natural and anthropogenically
inuenced environments. For a major new interdisci-
plinary research initiative, funded through the Pact for
Research and Innovation via the Leibniz Association,
on \Gradual environmental change versus single catas-
trophe - identifying drivers of mammalian evolution"
the IZW, together with its partner, the Potsdam Insti-
tute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) with expertise
in the areas of climate change, climate policy and cli-
mate economics, and in collaboration with further in-
stitutions, oers the following positions:
(1+2) 2 PhD positions in Evolutionary Genomics
(IZW)
(3) 1 PhD position in Stable Isotope Analysis and Evo-
lutionary Genomics (IZW)
(4) 1 PhD position in Nonlinear Analysis and Recon-
struction of Palaeo climate (PIK)
(5) 1 Technical Assistant in Evolutionary Genomics
(IZW)
Project
The research initiative will focus on the evolution of
mammals in the Sunda Shelf in southeast Asia, a global
biodiversity hotspot. By combining climate reconstruc-
tions, molecular genetic data and species distribution
data from the Late Pleistocene to the present we will
detect and understand the mechanisms generating com-
plex distribution patterns of genetic and species diver-
sity (Pleistocene refugia) and thereby evaluate the im-
pact of the hypothesised key drivers which may shape
biodiversity. Using carnivores, primates and hoofed
mammals as models, this will also contribute to the as-
sessment of the long-term consequences of the current
(man-made) biodiversity crisis.
Prerequisites (Positions 1+2, reference 34/2012) Candi-
dates should hold a master's degree or diploma in biol-
ogy or related disciplines and have a strong background
in molecular biology, population genetics, and/or bioin-
formatics. Experience with 'ancient' DNA work and
next generation sequencing is an advantage.
(3, ref 35/2012) The successful candidate will inves-
tigate the ecology of mammals in the Sunda Shelf
and combine stable isotope analyses with genetic work.
Candidates should have a master's degree or diploma
in biology or related disciplines. Experience in working
with stable isotopes and a background in evolutionary
ecology is an advantage.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
(4, ref 36/2012) The set of tasks associated with the
position includes the reconstruction and analysis of cli-
mate conditions in the last 100,000 years in southeast
Asia by using proxy records derived from stalagmites
and developing new (nonlinear) techniques in order to
consider instationarities, uncertainties, time-series with
gaps and unequally sampled time-series. The successful
candidate should hold a master's degree or diploma in
mathematics or physics with profound skills in nonlin-
ear dynamics, data analysis and programming in several
languages (e.g. Python, Matlab, C++).
(5, ref 37/2012) We are looking for a technical assistant
with strong molecular biology skills and, preferably, ex-
perience in 'ancient' DNA work and next generation
sequencing.
We oer state-of-the-art methodology and a stimulat-
ing research environment in an interdisciplinary, col-
laborative project. For all candidates, organisational
skills, high motivation and the willingness to work as
part of a team within a highly interdisciplinary project
are essential, as is prociency in English. For enquiries
or further questions, please contact Dr Joerns Fickel
(IZW) Tel.: +49 (0)30 5168-314, ckel@izw-berlin.de,
or Dr Norbert Marwan (PIK), Tel.: +49 (0)331 288-
2466, marwan@pik-potsdam.de.
All positions are subject to nal nancial conrmation
by the Leibniz Association. Salary and benets will be
competitive (e.g., a 65% scientist's salary for the PhD
students). Positions are limited to three years and will
be available from 1st April 2013. Interviews will take
place 4-8 February 2013. As members of the Leibniz
Association, both IZW and PIK are equal opportunity
employers, are determined to increase the proportion of
women in successful scientic careers, and particularly
encourage women to apply.
Please submit your application (quoting references 34-
37/2012) with a motivation letter, CV, copies of rele-
vant degrees and contact details of two people who can
provide a reference as one single PDF-le not larger
than 500 kb before or latest on January 6th, 2013 to
Stephanie Vollberg / Roswitha Hildebrand, Leibniz In-
stitut for Zoo & Wildlife Research, P.O.Box 700430,
D-10324 Berlin, Germany, personal@izw-berlin.de.
wilting@izw-berlin.de
MacEwanU EvolutionaryBiolBiological Sciences - Assistant Professor MacEwan Uni-
versity
The Department of Biological Sciences in the Faculty
of Arts and Science at MacEwan University invites
applications for an Assistant Professor position com-
mencing July 1, 2013. The candidate must have a
PhD (or solid indication of imminent completion) in
Biological Sciences, or a related discipline with a spe-
cialization in Molecular/Cellular Biology or Genetics.
The candidate must demonstrate excellence, or clear
promise of excellence, in teaching. A commitment to re-
search and to the supervision of undergraduate research
projects is expected. Candidates utilizing a model or-
ganism/system amenable to study in an undergraduate
context are of particular interest. Applicants should
have uent written and oral communication skills in
English. All qualied candidate are encourage to apply;
however, in accordance with Canadian immigration re-
quirements, Canadian citizens and permanent residents
will be given priority. If suitable Canadian citizens or
permanent residents cannot be found, other individuals
will be considered.
Applicants should submit a covering letter complete
with curriculum vitae, a statement regarding teaching
philosophy and interests, recent teaching evaluations,
a statement of research interests and graduate tran-
scripts. Candidates should also arrange for three let-
ters of reference to be sent under separate cover. All
correspondence should be addressed to: Human Re-
sources Department, MacEwan University, City Centre
campus, 10-600, 10930-104 Avenue NW Edmonton, Al-
berta, T5J 4S2 (please quote competition number in
your application).
All application materials should be submitted before
the closing date of February 28, 2013.
This position is included under the MacEwan Faculty
Association Collective Agreement.
Employment Category: Full Time Continuing
Salary Range: Commensurate with education and ex-
perience
Closing Date: February 28, 2013
Quote Competition No.: 12.12.320
MacEwan University thanks all applicants for their in-
terest in employment; however, only those selected for
interviews will be contacted.
Apply to: Human Resources Department MacEwan
University University Services Centre 10-600, 10700 104
Ave NW Edmonton AB T5J 4S2 FAX: (780) 497-5430
E-mail: careers@macewan.ca74 EvolDir January 1, 2013
MacEwan University employment opportunities can
be viewed by visiting our website at http://-
www.macewan.ca Click on Jobs at MacEwan.
judgek3@macewan.ca
MissouriBotanicalGarden
ConservationGenetics
Summary of the position:
A full-time assistant scientist in conservation genetics
is available in the Center for Conservation and Sus-
tainable Development of the Missouri Botanical Garden
(MBG). The candidate is expected to take a leadership
role in using molecular approaches to solve practical
problems in conservation biology and restoration ecol-
ogy. Candidates should have a solid understanding of
botanical garden collections and interest in plant con-
servation. This individual will also implement projects
to understand variation in genetic structure and diver-
sity in wild plant populations and in botanical garden
collections. The successful candidate will have the ca-
pacity to attract nancial support for research activities
by preparing proposals and obtaining grants from out-
side funding agencies. The incumbent will be expected
to collaborate with sta in the Science & Conserva-
tion, Horticulture, and Education Divisions at MBG;
students and faculty from local universities; and gov-
ernmental and non-governmental organizations.
The position will be based in St. Louis, where a vibrant
community of systematists, ecologists, and evolutionary
biologists interact through partnerships among MBG,
Washington University, the University of Missouri-St.
Louis and Saint Louis University. Missouri Botanical
Garden oers a comprehensive benets package.
Qualications and/or Experience: Candidates should
have a strong background in one or more of the fol-
lowing elds: genetics, evolution, ecology, conservation
biology, or a related discipline. A Ph.D. in one or more
of these elds is required by the start date. In addition,
candidates should have excellent writing and commu-
nications skills as well as an eagerness to produce and
publish scientic results. * Strong background includ-
ing a minimum of (3) years prior experience or course-
work in one or more of the following elds: genetics,
evolution, botany, or ecology. * Demonstrated abil-
ity including a minimum of (3) years experience using
standard laboratory techniques to extract and sequence
DNA. * Prior experience writing scientic papers, grantproposals and reports.
Application Process: To be considered, applicants
should apply on-line and submit a brief statement of
research interests, a CV, copies of relevant publica-
tions or manuscripts, and three letters of recommen-
dation from people familiar with their research to re-
cruiting@mobot.org before December 31, 2012.
For more information please visit our website or
contact the Recruiter Link to comprehensive post-
ing and job application: http://www.mobot.org/jobs/-
mbgjobs.asp#K011 Missouri Botanical Garden Web-
site: www.mobot.org Recruiter: Tracy Breckenridge E-
mail: recruiting@mobot.org
Equal Employment Opportunity/Armative Action
Employer
Matthew Albrecht, Ph.D. Center for Conservation &
Sustainable Development Missouri Botanical Garden
P.O. Box 299 St. Louis, MO 63166-0299
p: 314.577.0262 f: 314.577.0847 w: http:/-
/www.mobot.org/MOBOT/Research/curators/-
albrecht.shtml Matthew.Albrecht@mobot.org
PurdueU EvolutionaryBiol
Faculty Position in Evolutionary Biology Department
of Biological Sciences Purdue University
The Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue Univer-
sity, invites applicants for a tenure-track faculty posi-
tion in the area of Evolutionary Biology. We expect
to ll one academic-year appointment at the Assistant
Professor level. We seek candidates whose research in-
tegrates the elds of ecology and evolution through in-
vestigations in subelds including behavioral ecology,
community ecology, conservation biology, evolutionary
genetics, phylogenetics, physiological ecology, and/or
population biology. Applicants must have a Ph.D. or
equivalent in an appropriate discipline such as ecology,
evolution or population biology, and at least 2 years of
postdoctoral experience are highly recommended. The
successful applicant is expected to conduct externally
funded research that addresses fundamental questions
in an area listed above; teach and mentor undergrad-
uate and graduate students in the Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology curriculum; and participate in ongoing
programs in the Department of Biological Sciences.
The Department has over 50 faculty members conduct-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
ing research in a wide range of elds including evolu-
tionary biology, ecology, behavior, neurobiology, micro-
biology/virology, structural biology, developmental bi-
ology, molecular/cell biology, and bioinformatics. Fur-
ther information about the Department is available at
http://www.bio.purdue.edu/ .The successful candidate
will have opportunities to interact with ecologists and
allied scientists across the University, including col-
leagues in Discovery Park's Center for the Environ-
ment and Bindley Bioscience Center. First-rate lab-
oratory and computational facilities for analytical and
systems work are available in the Department and allied
Centers (e.g., Bioinformatics and Genomics Core Facil-
ities), and eld facilities are widely available in the sur-
rounding landscape, including the Ross Biological Re-
serve that is owned and maintained by the Department
of Biological Sciences.
Applications must be submitted electronically to
https://hiring.science.purdue.edu as single PDF les
that include detailed curriculum vitae, names and
addresses of three referees, a 2 - 3 page summary
of research interests, and a one-page teaching state-
ment. Inquiries should be directed to Evolution-
ary Biology Search Committee, Department of Bio-
logical Sciences, Purdue University, 915 West State
Street, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2054 or emailed to
search@bio.purdue.edu. Review of applications will be-
gin January 7, 2013 and continue until the position is
lled. A background check will be required for employ-
ment in this position.
Purdue University in an Equal Opportunity/Equal Ac-
cess/Armative Action employer fully committed to
achieving a diverse workforce.
dewoody@purdue.edu
ReedC Oregon AnimalBehaviour
*Assistant/Associate Professor of Biology (Visiting)*
The Biology Department at Reed College invites ap-
plications for a visiting professor position (prefer-
ably at the rank of assistant professor) for the 2013-
14 academic year, with the possibility of a second
year. We seek applicants with a PhD (required), and
post-doctoral experience (preferred) in animal behavior
and/or genetics, preferably working with invertebrate
or non-mammalian vertebrate organisms. Teaching re-
sponsibilities include an upper level lecture/lab course,a seminar course in the candidate's area of expertise,
one lower level course, and advising senior thesis re-
search projects. Supplies, equipment, and space are
available to support collaborative research with stu-
dents.
Reed College is a highly selective liberal arts institution
with a distinguished record of educational accomplish-
ment and a strong commitment to scholarship (http:/-
/web.reed.edu). The Reed community believes that
cultural diversity is essential to the excellence of our
academic program. All applicants are invited to ad-
dress how their teaching, scholarship, mentoring, com-
munity service, or other activities could support Reed's
commitment to diversity and inclusion (see http://-
www.reed.edu/diversity/).
For full consideration, application materials (cover let-
ter, curriculum vitae, statement of research and teach-
ing interests, one to two relevant reprints, and three let-
ters of recommendation) should be sent as PDF(s) to bi-
ology.search@reed.edu subject \visiting biology search"
by January 10 ^th 2013.
Specic inquiries should be directed to Susan
Renn, Chair, Visiting Biologist Search Committee,
renns@reed.edu
Suzy Renn <renns@reed.edu >
RutgersU Programmer
Research Programmer
Seeking a scientic research programmer to join the lab-
oratory of Dr. Jody Hey at Rutgers University, in Pis-
cataway, New Jersey. Primary responsibility will be to
assist in the development of statistical and evolutionary
genetic applications. The programmer will work with
Dr. Hey as well as postdocs and students in the lab
to revise existing code and to write new applications.
The work requires experience and skill in C and C++
programming, as well as skill in implementing complex
algorithms and data structures. Experience with both
Unix and Windows, as well as MPI, is desired. The po-
sition is funded by an NIH grant for three years, with
possibilities for continued funding.
Either a Ph.D. in some area of computational biology or
biochemistry, or a Master's degree in computer science
with extensive experience in scientic programming.
Applicants should provide a CV/Resume and three let-76 EvolDir January 1, 2013
ters of reference
The position is available immediately.
Jody Hey Professor, Department of Genetics Rut-
gers University Nelson Biological Labs (rm B326)
604 Allison Rd. Piscataway, NJ 08854-8082 732-
445-5272 fax 732-445-5870 hey@biology.rutgers.edu
http://genfaculty.rutgers.edu/hey/home \Hey, Jody"
<Hey@dls.rutgers.edu >
SangerInstitute Programmer
MicrobialBioinformatics
Senior Software Developer - Web Applications
Salary range is ^A$27589 to ^A$38067 per annum de-
pendent on experience
We are seeking an experienced and enthusiastic Web
Application Developer to further the development of
bioinformatics applications for the intuitive visualisa-
tion and analysis of very large sets of microbial genomes
via the web. The post is funded for four years as part of
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation funded Global
Pneumococcal Sequencing (GPS) initiative. The work
will be carried out within the Pathogen Genomics group
at the WTSI, in collaboration with the Department
of Infectious Disease Epidemiology at the St. Mary's
Campus of Imperial College, London. The Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute (WTSI) is a world leader in
genomic research, with an expanding scientic pro-
gramme dedicated to understanding gene function in
health & disease. The Pathogen Genomics team uses
high-throughput sequencing and phenotype analysis of
bacteria to understand their virulence, evolution, trans-
mission and host-interactions.
Recent advances in DNA sequencing technology provide
the ability to obtain the DNA sequences of very large
numbers of isolates of bacterial pathogens and open the
way to detailed analysis of pathogen behaviour. Mak-
ing these data useable by communities of researchers
requires the development of web applications that log-
ically store and query the genome sequences of large
numbers of samples and allow a range of sophisticated
analyses to be carried out.
The GPS initiative is aligned with global eorts to
reduce vaccine preventable deaths and is focused on
genomic analysis of Streptococcus pneumoniae, a ma-
jor cause of morbidity and mortality throughout the
world with a particular impact in low-income regions.The scientic aim of the project is to capture ge-
nomic variation in pneumococcal populations around
the world, before and after widespread use of current
anti-pneumococcal vaccines, in order to better under-
stand how the pathogen responds to such vital clinical
interventions thereby informing strategies around their
use.
The successful candidate will be part of a dynamic
team at the WTSI and will interact with collaborators
around the world. They will play a key role in the devel-
opment of novel visualisation and analysis tools for the
intuitive presentation of sets of pneumococcal genomes
to large communities of users via the web. Close liaison
with other team members, with thorough assessment of
existing and potential solutions will be crucial and the
ability to collaboratively problem solve and code is a
must.
Job Reference 81323 Documents 81-45; Senior Software
Developer - Web Application.pdf (PDF, 19.6kb) Essen-
tial Skills
The successful candidate will have the following knowl-
edge, experience and skills:
- PhD or MSc in computer science or related area (or
equivalent industry experience)
- Evidence of prociency in computer program design
and implementation in modern web programming lan-
guages.
- Proven experience of designing and developing web
based applications for support of scientic projects
- Experience of dealing with large data sets and running
software on a compute farm
- Knowledge and experience of UNIX / LINUX on an
advanced level
- Strong interpersonal and communication skills
- Excellent problem-solving skills
- Experience of training and supervising other team
members Ideal Skills
Ideal Skills
Expertise in design, creation and validation of intu-
itive software for visualisation and analysis of biological
datasets. Experience with processing next-generation
sequencing data would be an asset but is not essential.
Other information
This position is xed-term for 4 years.
Closing date for applications is Wednesday 2nd January
2013
https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk/wd/plsql/-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
wdportal.show job?p websiteid=-
1764&p webpage id=158174 Stephen Bentley
Principal Scientist Pathogen Genomics Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute * Senior Research Associate
Department of Medicine University of Cambridge *
Honorary Professor Institute of Infection and Global
Health University of Liverpool
Stephen Bentley <sdb@sanger.ac.uk >
UCalifornia Riverside
PlantEvolution
FACULTY POSITION - ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
PLANT COMMUNITY ECOLOGIST UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, RIVERSIDE The Department of
Botany and Plant Sciences invites applications for an
assistant professor, tenure-track (9-month) position in
Plant Community Ecology. Applicants should work at
the forefront of the eld, with emphasis on a functional
approach to understanding community dynamics. We
seek a plant ecologist who can interact with programs
in conservation biology, invasive species ecology, ecolog-
ical genomics, ecosystem and landscape ecology, and/or
theoretical and computational ecology. Preference will
be given to candidates who integrate empirical with sta-
tistical, phylogenetic, or modeling approaches, and who
can apply advanced techniques such as, but not limited
to, GIS/remote sensing, niche modeling, ecophysiolog-
ical measurements, or stable isotopes. The successful
candidate will supervise graduate students, develop a
graduate-level community ecology course, and partic-
ipate in the life science undergraduate teaching pro-
gram. The position includes a research appointment in
the Agricultural Experiment Station with an expecta-
tion to develop a nationally competitive program and
obtain extramural grant funds. For additional informa-
tion about the Department and the campus visithttp:/-
/cnas.ucr.edu/ andhttp://www.plantbiology.ucr.edu/.
Applicants must hold a Ph.D. in ecological or envi-
ronmental sciences or related elds with postdoctoral
experience. Evaluation of applications will begin Jan
7, 2013 and continue until the position is lled. The
position will be available July 1, 2013. Interested indi-
viduals should submit 1) a curriculum vitae, 2) a state-
ment of research and teaching interests,and 3) have
three letters of recommendation submitted through
Academicjobsonline (https://academicjobsonline.org/-
ajo/jobs/2291) The University of California, Riverside
is an Armative Action equal opportunity employercommitted to excellence through diversity. { Louis
Santiago Associate Professor of Physiological Ecology
Botany & Plant Sciences and Center for Conservation
Biology University of California 2150 Batchelor Hall
Riverside, CA 92521-0124santiago@ucr.edu http://-
plantbiology.ucr.edu/faculty/santiago.html Louis San-
tiago Associate Professor of Physiological Ecology
Botany & Plant Sciences and Center for Conservation
Biology University of California 2150 Batchelor Hall
Riverside, CA 92521-0124 santiago@ucr.edu http://-
plantbiology.ucr.edu/faculty/santiago.html Associate
Researcher Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Apartado 0843-03092 Balboa, Republic of Panama
http://stri.si.edu Louis Santiago <santiago@ucr.edu >
UCalifornia SantaBarbara
UndergradResearch
EvolMatingSystem
RESEARCH INTERNSHIP AVAILABLE FOR UN-
DERGRADUATES
The joint evolution of mating system, life history, phys-
iological performance, and drought-escape in the wild-
ower genus, Clarkia (Onagraceae)
The Mazer lab at the University of California, Santa
Barbara wishes to recruit two or three volunteer un-
dergraduate or beginning graduate student researchers
to assist us in the nal eld season of an NSF-funded
project in the southern Sierra Nevada of California from
mid-March to mid-July 2013.
The research team for this project includes plant evo-
lutionary and physiological ecologists at the University
of California, Santa Barbara (Dr. Susan Mazer and
Dr. Leah Dudley), at the University of St. Thomas
(Dr. Simon Emms and Dr. Amy Verhoeven), and at
California State University at Chico (Dr. Christopher
Ivey). Since 2008, we've been investigating the physio-
logical, genetic, and ecological causes and consequences
of the evolution of self-fertilization in several species of
the annual wildower genus, Clarkia.
The project for which we seek additional eld assis-
tants includes a eld experiment in which genotypes
of two predominantly outcrossing taxa (C. xantiana
ssp xantiana and C. unguiculata) will be assessed for
their physiological rates, water use eciency, plant ar-
chitecture, life-history parameters, oral traits, and a
variety of other stress-related traits (chlorophyll uo-78 EvolDir January 1, 2013
rescence and water potential). The goal is to deter-
mine whether, in these outcrossing taxa, genotypes that
ower early exhibit a tendency to self-fertilize and/or
other traits associated with their earlier-owering self-
ing sister taxa. If early owering genetically associated
with oral traits that promote selng (as suggested by
our previous work), then where natural selection favors
early owering in wild Clarkia populations - as may
be the case where climate change or drought causes a
shorter growing season - high levels of selng may evolve
quickly due to this genetic association, even if selng is
disadvantageous due to its genetic risks (e.g., inbreeding
depression). In other words, along with poor pollinator
service, shorter growing seasons induced by springtime
drought might promote the evolution of selng, gen-
erating population genetic problems that haven't been
previously suggested to be a possible outcome of com-
pressed growing seasons.
Details of the research internships: We will provide (a
minimum of two) eld assistants with shared housing in
the Lake Isabella region, but participants would be ex-
pected to pay for their own food. We expect volunteers
to: (1) be interested in the ecology and evolution of wild
species; (2) be willing to work in all weather conditions,
(3) participate well in a group setting, (4) work inde-
pendently when necessary, (5) function at any time of
day or night (we will record pre-dawn/night-time mea-
surements 20-30 times during the season - ouch!), and
(6) carry heavy objects for short distances. Students
will in turn receive a closely mentored eld experience
and research training in the elds of ecology and evolu-
tion, with a special emphasis on plant physiology. We
would also strongly encourage the development of inde-
pendent research projects that may lead to and inform
future graduate work.
We're attaching a ier that describes the opportunity,
and would greatly appreciate help in distributing it.
Susan Mazer Professor of Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Department of Ecology, Evolution & Marine Biol-
ogy University of California, Santa Barbara Santa Bar-
bara, CA 93106
cell: 805-729-3980 oce: 805-893-8011 FAX: 805-893-
2266 mazer@lifesci.ucsb.edu
website: http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/faculty/-
mazer/index.html Leah S. Dudley Postdoctoral Re-
searcher, Plant Ecophysiology Department of Ecology,
Evolution & Marine Biology University of California,
Santa Barbara
susan.mazer@lifesci.ucsb.eduUFreiburg 2 EvolutionaryBiol
The Faculty of Biology at the University of Freiburg
(Germany) invites applications for
2 Research Associates (Wissenschaftlicher Mitar-
beiter/in; E13 TV-L)/ Assistant Professorships (A13)
Fulltime position, Start: April 1st 2013
The Institute of Biology I is seeking highly motivated
candidates with experience and research interests in the
area of evolutionary biology.
1. Position: Molecular Evolution The candidate should
have a strong background in evolutionary biology and
molecular genetics/genomics. The applicant should be
familiar with genomic analyses and molecular genetic
techniques (ideally with Quantitative Realtime PCR
and RNAi).
2. Position: Evolutionary Biology The candidate
should have a strong background in evolutionary bi-
ology, preferentially working on social evolution in ver-
tebrates, invertebrates or social microbes.
The positions are part of the new to establish
evolutionary biology group by Prof. Dr. Ju-
dith Korb at the department of Evolutionary Bi-
ology and Animal Ecology. For further infor-
mation about research see (http://www.biologie.uni-
osnabrueck.de/Fachbereich/?x=ae,equ;en), or please
contact: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de.
The University of Freiburg is a top research location
in Germany. Freiburg is a university town, located in
one of the warmest regions of Germany, next to the
black forest and close to Alsace and Switzerland. The
vibrant town oers a living environment surrounded by
beautiful scenery, plenty of entertainment and cultural
activities.
Candidates for positions must hold a PhD and should
establish externally funded projects, supervise stu-
dents, contribute to the teaching mission of the de-
partment and will have the opportunity to obtain the
Habilitation (a German qualication supportive in ap-
plications for professorships).
The positions are available starting April 2013 for a
maximum of up to 6 years. Initial appointment gener-
ally is for three years.
The University of Freiburg is committed to equal oppor-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
tunity in employment and gender equality in its work-
ing environment. We strongly encourage applications
from qualied women. Applications from appropriately
qualied handicapped persons are also encouraged.
Interested candidates should send an application (as a
single e-mail attachment) containing a complete CV,
reprints (pdf-les) of three representative papers and a
concise description of current and future research con-
cepts. Applicants should also arrange for two letters of
reference to be submitted on their behalf to the address
below.
Applications for this position are required by January
31th 2013 and should be sent electronically to: Prof.
Dr. Judith Korb, e-mail: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-
osnabrueck.de
\Korb, Judith" <Judith.Korb@Biologie.Uni-
Osnabrueck.DE >
UMichigan CollectionManager
The Mammal Division, University of Michigan Museum
of Zoology, is seeking to hire a Research Museum Col-
lection Manager. This is a full-time, permanent posi-
tion.
JOB DUTIES:
1. Maintenance and digitization of the existing mam-
mal collections including dry collections (skins, skulls,
skeletons and furs), uid preserved specimens, frozen
tissues, photographs, and digital images. Activities in-
clude attention to the condition and arrangement of
specimens, as well as maintaining the collection ar-
eas and equipment to make them suitable for research,
teaching, and use by visitors, either on site or remotely
through online communication. Responsibilities also in-
clude reviewing, updating, and enhancing the mammal
collections management plan; working with faculty cu-
rators to develop and implement policies, standards,
and procedures for the scientic and technical work per-
formed within the research collections; advise faculty,
students and sta on all aspects of collection manage-
ment involving the mammal collections.
2. Maintenance and digitization of the research and
teaching collection catalogs and the eld notes. Activ-
ities include developing and maintaining a computer
database, with digital images and label and catalog
printouts. Confer with faculty and student researchers
to plan and develop research projects utilizing the re-search collections; analyze data and problems; develop
and recommend solutions to the problems and test the
solutions for eectiveness. Author or co-author articles
/ book chapters for publication; present or co-present
with faculty in class settings or at scientic conferences.
3. Accessioning of new specimens. Activities involve
preserving new specimens in the appropriate manner
and cataloging them in the electronic database.
4. Coordinate and process inter-departmental and
inter-institutional loans and exchanges. Activities in-
clude the packing and unpacking of loans (specimens
and frozen tissue) and providing federal and interna-
tional permit information when appropriate, and the
electronic exchange of digitized information.
5. Routine maintenance of the data portal through
which our holdings are made accessible to researchers
across the world. This activity requires regular atten-
tion to both our electronic, searchable database and a
server that connects us to the international community.
6. Maintenance and use of the dermestid beetle colony.
This activity involves coordinating the preparation of
skeletal preparations for UMMZ vertebrate divisions
(sh, reptiles and amphibians, birds and mammals).
7. Maintenance of the Liquid Nitrogen Facility. This
activity involves oversight of the organization of tis-
sues for all divisions within the Museum of Zoology
(mammals, insects, mollusks, birds, sh, reptiles and
amphibians).
8. Training and supervision of sta volunteers, work-
study students and graduate research assistants in all
aspects of specimen preparation and conservation prac-
tices, geo-referencing and digital imaging of specimens
and routine collections maintenance tasks.
9. Coordination of research visits and educational tours
of the collections; participation in museum outreach ac-
tivities.
QUALIFICATIONS:
An advanced degree (Master's or doctoral) in biology,
zoology, or related elds with 3-5 years of museum expe-
rience is required. Extensive experience with database
construction, use, and management is strongly pre-
ferred. Prior participation in a NSF Advancing Dig-
itization of Biological Collections (ADBC) project is
desirable. Familiarity with research collections is re-
quired. Expertise with mammals is highly desirable.
Information about applying can be found
at http://umjobs.org/job detail/76432/-
resmuseum collection manager . ptuck@umich.edu80 EvolDir January 1, 2013
UMinnesota MaizeGenomics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR: MAIZE TRANSLA-
TIONAL GENOMICS COLLEGE OF FOOD,
AGRICULTURAL, AND NATURAL RESOURCE
SCIENCES UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
POSITION: Assistant Professor in Maize Translational
Genomics (9-month, tenure-track appointment; 75% re-
search, 25% teaching)
CLOSING DATE: December 15, 2012 or until a suit-
able candidate is identied LOCATION: Department of
Agronomy and Plant Genetics, College of Food, Agri-
cultural, and Natural
Resource Sciences, University of Minnesota, St. Paul,
MN 55108
RESPONSIBILITIES: We seek a scientist who will es-
tablish a strong research and teaching program in maize
translational genomics. The successful candidate will
(1) use maize as a model species to address critical
research questions in genomics, epigenetics, gene ex-
pression, or heterosis; (2) translate discoveries into use-
ful genes, germplasm, or genomics tools and resources
to meet continuing needs for feed and fuel as well as
emerging needs for nutrition and ecosystem services;
and (3) educate a diverse group of undergraduate stu-
dents, graduate students, or postdoctoral scientists. To
be successful, the scientist will need to obtain sustained
extramural funding for research and collaborate with
scientists and stakeholders within and outside the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. The scientist will regularly teach
one graduate or undergraduate course that is related
to the candidates expertise and that meets current or
anticipated teaching needs of the department.
QUALIFICATIONS: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral
degree in a eld related to plant genetics is required.
In addition, the following qualications are preferred:
postdoctoral or industry research experience; classroom
teaching experience; and a demonstrated ability to
compete for extramural grants, to initiate a strong re-
search program in translational genomics, to communi-
cate eectively with diverse audiences, and to interact
productively with other scientists.
SALARY AND BENEFITS: Salary is commensurate
with background and level of experience, with an ex-
pected start date of September 2013. Initial summer-
salary support and a competitive faculty benets pack-age will be provided.
APPLICATION: Include a cover letter, CV, a two-
page statement of research accomplishments and in-
terests, a one-page statement of teaching experience
and interests, and the names, mailing addresses, and
email addresses of three professional references. Ref-
erences will be contacted only of those applicants
judged most qualied. Submit applications online at
www1.umn.edu/ohr/, requisition #181165. For further
information, please contact Dr. Rex Bernardo, search
committee chair, by email (bernardo@umn.edu).
As an institution committed to demonstrating excel-
lence through diversity, the College of Food, Agricul-
tural and Natural Resource Sciences and the University
are committed to hiring a diverse faculty and sta, and
actively encourages candidates from historically under-
represented groups to apply.
\Peter L. Morrell" <pmorrell@umn.edu >\Peter L.
Morrell" <pmorrell@umn.edu >
UMinnesota SaintPaul
MycologistCuratorOfFungi
Bell Museum of Natural History College of Food, Agri-
cultural and Natural Resource Sciences (CFANS) Uni-
versity of Minnesota - Saint Paul, Minnesota
Position: Mycologist and Curator of Fungi, Bell Mu-
seum/Plant Pathology Classication: Assistant Profes-
sor, 9 month appointment Reporting To: Director, Bell
Museum and Head, Plant Pathology Position Number:
182025
Position Overview: This position is responsible for de-
veloping and maintaining an active, collections-based,
extramurally funded research program in mycology.
Teaching duties required of this position include un-
dergraduate and graduate courses, as well as mentor-
ing students from the University's diverse undergrad-
uate and graduate student populations. In addition,
this position is responsible for curating the Bell Mu-
seums mycology collection. Outreach is an important
aspect of this position, specically through participa-
tion in public programs oered by the Bell Museum of
Natural History.
Major Areas of Accountability: Mycology systematics
research and curation V 50% (which includes 15% cu-
ratorial activity) The Curator of Fungi is responsible
for developing and maintaining an active, extramurallyJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
funded, collections-based research program that em-
phasizes a conceptual and interdisciplinary approach to
the systematics and evolution of fungi. The Curator
of Fungi is also responsible for building and maintain-
ing the fungal collections in line with modern museum
practices.
Teaching and educational outreachV 50% The incum-
bent will teach 6 credits annually. Possibilities include
undergraduate courses on fungal diversity, systematics
and evolution of fungi, macrofungi, an undergraduate
honors seminar, as well as a graduate course in the in-
cumbent's area of specialty. S/he will be a member
of the graduate faculty and will advise undergraduate
and graduate students, including those from diverse cul-
tural backgrounds. The incumbent will help maintain
accuracy of scientic content in the public outreach pro-
grams of the Bell Museum and will participate in public
outreach initiatives (e.g., teacher workshops, exhibits,
or education programs).
Essential Qualications Ph.D. or international equiva-
lent in the Biological Sciences Demonstrated research
emphasis in mycology and systematics Evidence of in-
terest in curation of museum collections Preferred Aca-
demic Preparation and Experience Post-doctoral expe-
rience Curatorial experience with fungal collections Ex-
perience maintaining a living fungal collection Evidence
of teaching experience at the college level Creativity,
quality and productivity in research Potential to main-
tain an active, extramurally funded research program
Ability to communicate eectively both orally and in
writing Interest in, experience with, and commitment
to diversity and cultural inclusiveness
Salary/Benets: Salary is competitive and commensu-
rate with experience and qualications. Two months
of summer salary will be provided for the rst two
years; subsequently summer salary may be supple-
mented by research and/or educational grants up to
2.5 months. Benets include employee health, den-
tal, and faculty life/disability insurance, social secu-
rity, faculty retirement and opportunities for profes-
sional development, including sabbatical and semester
leave opportunities. Benets are described at http://-
www1.umn.edu/ohr/benets/index.html Application:
Apply online at: https://employment.umn.edu (search
for requisition 182025). Applicants should attach: 1) a
cover letter that specically addresses the candidate's
commitment to and respect for diversity, cultural com-
petence, and inclusiveness; 2) curriculum vitae; 3) re-
search statement; 4) curation statement; 6) teaching
statement; 7) the names, addresses and email contact
information for three professional references. Incom-
plete applications will not be considered.Please direct technical inquiries about the application
process (website, etc) to Ms. Anne Lageson, Search
Committee Administrator at lages001@umn.edu.
Please direct questions about the position responsibil-
ities to the Search Committee Chair, Andrew Simons
at asimons@umn.edu.
Review of applications begins February 1, 2012.
Position will remain open until lled.
The University of Minnesota is committed to the policy
that all persons shall have equal access to its programs,
facilities and employment without regard to race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital sta-
tus, disability, public assistance status, veteran status
or sexual orientation.
{ Anne D. Lageson Executive Secretary Plant Pathol-
ogy 612-625-4705
Anne Lageson <lages001@umn.edu >
UNeuchatel FieldAssist
HouseSparrows
Field assistant to study house sparrows
We are seeking a eld assistant for the upcoming breed-
ing season to join a project investigating the impact
of oxidative stress on the development of reproductive
strategies in house sparrow. The research will be con-
ducted in two horse farms in Colombier and La Chaux-
de-Fonds, Canton of Neuch^ atel. The work will start in
March and will continue through June.
Our project researches how male social status aects
the allocation of antioxidant resources to the protection
of the sperm vs. the protection of somatic functions,
and how such allocation strategies aect the quality of
the sperm produced.
The work of the volunteer will consist of catching
and banding birds and following their reproduction,
behavioural observations, sample collection and data
management.
Qualications:
(1) BSc or higher in Biology or similar qualication (2)
Knowledge in observing & handling birds is a plus (3)
Driving license and car are useful (4) Basic knowledge
of French is helpful although not essential
The volunteer will receive a small allowance of up to82 EvolDir January 1, 2013
CHF 500.-/month. We will also cover travel expenses
up to 350 to and from the study site.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
pg.) and the name of two referees - should be sent to
Fabrice Helfenstein: fabrice.helfenstein@unine.ch
Please use \Volunteer Assistant in Neuch^ atel" as the
subject and note your availability during this time pe-
riod in the body of the e-mail. Applications received
until 15th January 2013 will be given full consideration.
For further information on the lab & project, see:
http://www2.unine.ch/ecophy Fabrice Helfenstein
Assistant Professor FNS Evolutionary Ecophysiology
Group Institute of Biology University of Neuch^ atel Rue
Emile-Argand 11 CH-2000 Neuch^ atel Switzerland
Room D104 Tel. +41 (0)32 718 22 34 Tel. +41
(0)79 427 44 24 http://www2.unine.ch/ecophy fab-
rice.helfenstein@unine.ch
UNeuchatel FieldAssist OxiStress
Birds
Expenses-paid eld assistant position to study oxida-
tive stress in relation to social status in house sparrows
in south of France.
We are seeking a research assistant for the upcoming
breeding season to join a project investigating the im-
pact of oxidative stress on the development of repro-
ductive strategies in house sparrow. The research will
be conducted in Ariege, south of France. The work will
start on 1st of March and will continue through early
May.
Our project researches how males with dierent posi-
tions in a dominance hierarchy allocate their antioxi-
dant resources to the protection of their sperm vs. the
protection of their somatic functions, and how such al-
location strategies aect the quality of the sperm they
produce. The project is based at the University of
Neuchatel, Switzerland (PI Prof. Fabrice Helfenstein,
PhD student Alfonso Rojas), but will be conducted at
the CNRS Station for Experimental Ecology in Moulis,
Ariege, France, which is situated at the foot of the Pyre-
nees Mountains.
The work of the volunteer will consist of carrying out
an experiment in aviaries with house sparrows. This
includes assisting the PhD student with catching and
banding birds, behavioural observations, sample collec-tion, data management and data analysis. During the
conduct of the experiment we work 7 days a week and
10-12 hours a day.
Qualications: (1) BSc or higher in Biology or simi-
lar qualication (2) Ability to work and live in small
groups and sociable personality (3) Fluent in English
(4) Ability to endure long working days (5) Knowledge
in observing & handling birds is a plus (6) Driving li-
cense is helpful (7) Basic knowledge of French is help-
ful although not essential This is an expenses-paid eld
assistant position, covering accommodation, food, and
travel expenses of up to 300 to and from the study site.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
pg.) and the name of two referees - should be sent to
both:
Fabrice Helfenstein: fabrice.helfenstein@unine.ch and
Alfonso Rojas: luis.rojas@unine.ch
Please use \Volunteer Assistant in France" as the sub-
ject and note your availability during this time period
in the body of the e-mail. Applications received until
1st January 2013 will be given full consideration.
For further information on the lab & project,
see: http://www2.unine.ch/ecophy fab-
rice.helfenstein@unine.ch
USheeld 3 EvolutionaryBiol
An opportunity to join one of the UK's top organismal
biology departments!
The Department Animal and Plant Sciences, University
of Sheeld, has advertised up to three Lectureships in
organismal biology (see www.shef.ac.uk/jobs, position
reference UoS005748). Appointments at more senior
levels may be possible for suitable candidates. Appli-
cations in all areas of organismal biology are welcomed
but we are particularly interesed in those studying mi-
crobial ecology or evolution.
I am happy to answer informal queries about the posts
or the department.
Roger
{ Roger K Butlin Professor of Evolutionary Biology
Animal and Plant Sciences The University of Sheeld
Western Bank Sheeld S10 2TN UK
Tel. +44(0)114 2220097 FAX +44(0)114 2220002January 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
Roger Butlin <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >
UStirling 2 ConservationBiol
The search for the Chairs advertised below will consider
evolutionary biologists with relevant qualications.
Two Chairs in Biological and Environmental Sciences
School of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Scot-
land, United Kingdom.
The School of Natural Sciences invites applica-
tions for two full time Professorial/Reader positions
within Biological and Environmental Sciences (http:/-
/www.sbes.stir.ac.uk/). This interdisciplinary division
operates from the molecular to the global scale to ad-
dress key questions focused on the relationships be-
tween society and the environment. Our ndings are
used to inform policy makers and practitioners in con-
servation, environmental regulation, planning and man-
agement. Building on our internationally leading re-
search in Conservation and Environmental Protection,
we seek applications in the area of Environmental
Change and Biological Conservation.
Candidates are expected to be outstanding, interna-
tionally renowned leaders within their eld of research.
Successful candidates will have proven track records of
research leadership with demonstrable skills in building
research groups, obtaining grant funding nationally and
internationally, and a substantive record of publications
in high impact journals. Strategically these appoint-
ments will augment Stirling's reputation as the leading
institution for Conservation Biology and Environmen-
tal Protection in Scotland and will further strengthen
its ranking in these elds across the UK and interna-
tionally.
Chair in Conservation Biology: Applications are invited
from within the interdisciplinary elds of conservation
biology, and its interactions with biology, molecular bi-
ology, evolutionary ecology, human activity and envi-
ronmental policy.
Chair in Environmental Change: We seek applications
in the broad area of environmental change. Applicants
specialising on the impacts of environmental change
on natural biogeochemical cycles within terrestrial or
aquatic environments are especially welcome.
For full details see: http://www.stir.ac.uk/about/-jobs/list/ For informal discussion, please contact ei-
ther Professor Ian Simpson (Head of School), +44
1786 467850 or email: i.a.simpson@stir.ac.uk. Alter-
natively contact Dr Andrew Tyler (Head of Biologi-
cal and Environmental Sciences), +44 1786 467838 or
email: a.n.tyler@stir.ac.uk.
The closing date for receipt of applications for these
two positions is 10th January 2013. Interviews will be
held on 20th February 2013.
Please apply on-line. If you are unable to make an on-
line application please contact Emma Louden in HR:
emma.louden@stir.ac.uk
Mario Vallejo-Marin Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences School of Natural Sciences University of Stirling
Stirling, FK9 4LA Scotland Tel. (+44) 01786 467822
http://www.sbes.stir.ac.uk/people/vallejo-marin
mario.vallejo@stir.ac.uk
UWisconsin Madison LabTech
PollinatorEvol
A technician position is available immediately in the
laboratory of Dr. Johanne Brunet in Madison, Wis-
consin.
The laboratory is located in the department of Ento-
mology at the University of Wisconsin Madison.
Research in the laboratory is on gene ow and
plant/pollinator interactions. Details about the re-
search
can be found at http://www.entomology.wisc.edu/-
faculty or http://labs.russell.wisc.edu/brunet . This is
a USDA-ARS (Agricultural Research Service) position
for US citizens. Details on how to apply
for the position can be found at: http://-
www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/332069500
The position will be advertised between Dec. 5 and
Dec. 19 and all materials need to be received by the
end of day on December 19. Although the advertise-
ment includes various positions, the ideal candidate for
the position in my laboratory will have a background
in evolutionary biology with experience working with
plants and pollinators and using and developing molec-
ular markers. Do not hesitate to contact me for more
information and for help with the application process
at jbrunet@wisc.edu or Johanne.Brunet@ars.usda.gov.
Dr. Johanne Brunet84 EvolDir January 1, 2013
USDA-ARS VCRU Associate Professor Dept. of En-
tomology 1630 Linden Drive University of Wisconsin
Madison, WI 53706 1-608-265- 3587 (Oce) 1- 608-
262- 3322 (Fax) http://labs.russell.wisc.edu/brunet
jbrunet@wisc.edu
UZurich FieldAssist BirdEvolution
UZurich FieldAssist BirdEvolution
Expenses-paid  assistant positions to study evolution of
family living and cooperative breeding in birds in Spain.
We are seeking some additional applicants for  research
volunteers for the upcoming breeding season to join our
 project investigating the evolution of family living and
cooperative breeding in birds. The research is con-
ducted in Andalusia, southern Spain. Starting dates
range from the end of February to the middle of March
and work will continue through June.
Our project researches the shifts in parental investment
patterns in pair living, kin-group living and cooper-
atively breeding birds. The project is based at the
University of Zurich, Switzerland (PI Michael Griesser,
PhD students Emeline Mourocq & Gretchen Wagner).
The work of the volunteers will consist of carrying out
 experiments, locating nests, assisting the PhD students
with catching and ringing birds, behavioral observa-
tions and data management. This work will give in-
sight into experimental  and is carried out in scenic
semi-arid habitats of southern Spain. Depending on
the eld workload, we work up to 6 days per week and
the days can be long (10-12 hours), including eld work
and data entry. Observe that temperatures at the be-
ginning of the  season can be below 0 ^AC, and later in
the breeding season be easily above 35 ^AC. The work
can be physically strenuous at times.
Quali :
(1) BSc or higher in Biology or similar quali 
(2) Ability to work and live in small groups and sociable
personality
(3) Fluent in English
(4) Previous  experience a plus
(5) Good physical condition and ability to endure long,
physically demanding days
(6) Knowledge in observing & handling birds is a plus(7) Driving license is helpful
(8) Basic knowledge of Spanish is helpful
These are expenses-paid  assistant positions, covering
accommodation, food, and travel expenses of up to
300^ a:toand fromthestudysite:
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
pg.) and the name of two referees - should be sent to
both:
Emeline Mourocq: emeline.mourocq@uzh.ch and
Gretchen Wagner: gretchen.wagner@uzh.ch
Please use \Volunteer Field Assistant Position in
Spain" as the subject and note your availability during
this time period in the body of the e-mail. Applica-
tions received until 5th February 2013 will be given full
consideration.
If you applied for the previous announcement which
came out beginning November 2011, your candidature
is being considered, please do not apply again.
For further information on the project, see:
http://www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies.html
http://www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies/-
mourocq.html
http://www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies/-
wagner.html
emeline mourocq <emeline.mourocq@uzh.ch >
U Zurich FieldAssist Swedish
Lapland
Expenses paid eld assistant positions to study life-
history evolution in Siberian Jays in Swedish Lapland
For the upcoming eld season (March-July 2013) we are
looking for two highly motivated expenses paid eld
volunteer to join our eld project investigating life-
history evolution in Siberian jays (Perisoreus infaus-
tus) (main responsible Michael Griesser, University of
Zurich, Switzerland). The study population is located
near Arvidsjaur, Swedish Lapland.
Our current project investigates the inuence of habitat
quality on ospring quality. The work of the eld volun-
teers will be to help in eld experiments, behavioural
observations, following radio-tagged birds, measuring
nestlings, and data management. This work will giveJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
insight into exciting experimental eldwork and will
be carried out partly in managed forests and partly in
scenic pristine boreal habitats. We will work 5-7 days
per week in the eld depending on the workload of the
experiments. Days in the eld can be long in particular
around midsummer when following dispersing individ-
uals. Observe that temperatures in the beginning of
the season can be as low as -30C. The work is physi-
cally strenuous at times in particular during the snow
melting period in April.
Assistants can apply for either the whole season (pre-
ferred option), or from March-mid May, and from May-
July. Assistants working from March to May will be do-
ing most of the eldwork on X-country skis, and given
that only the edge of the study site is accessible by car,
we ski up to 15km per day. Thus, a previous knowledge
of X-country skiing is helpful.
Qualications: (1) BSc/MSc in Biology, Ecology or
similar qualication (2) Previous eld experience (3)
Ability to work in small teams and sociable personality
(4) Knowledge in observing & handling birds is a plus
(5) Driving license (6) Fluent in English
We will cover for the accommodation, travel expenses
from and to the study site (in total up to 300 Euros)
as well as the living expenses.
SPECIFY CLEARLY FOR WHICH WORK PERIOD
YOU APPLY.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
page) and the name of two referees - should be send to
Xenia Schleuning: x.schleuning@gmx.net
Applications received until 4th January 2013 will be
given full consideration.
Michael Griesser Anthropological Institute & Museum
University of Zurich - Campus Irchel Winterthur-
erstrasse 190 8057 Z urich Switzerland
http://www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies/-
mgriesser.html http://www.prodoc-evolcoop.uzh.ch/-
index.html michael.griesser@uzh.ch
Vienna PopulationGenomics
Junior Faculty Position Tenure Track: Statistical Ge-
netics / Population Genomics at the Max F. Perutz
Laboratories, University of Vienna.
* last call for this position: deadline Jan 4th coming up*
The Max F. Perutz Laboratories (MFPL;
www.mfpl.ac.at) are a recently established joint
venture of the University of Vienna and the Medical
University of Vienna, engaged in top level biomedical
research and training. MFPL houses more than 60
research groups in various areas of Molecular Biology
and is embedded in the Vienna Biocenter Campus.
The working language of the Institute is English.
MFPL is committed to promoting work/life balance,
and the campus hosts an international kindergarten.
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centers in evolutionary biology
(www.evolvienna.at). In addition to a stimulating sci-
entic environment, Vienna also oers an extraordinar-
ily high quality of life. Aordable housing, excellent
public transport, great restaurants, a range of inter-
national schools, two operas, two music centers, many
theaters and museums in combination with a pleasant
climate make Vienna one of the most attractive cities
in Europe.
Faculty opening
An independent junior faculty position (roughly equiv-
alent to an assistant professorship) is oered to
strengthen the Computational Biology and Bioinfor-
matics unit in the area of population genetic modeling.
In particular candidates with a track record in statisti-
cal genetics or population genomic modeling and data
analysis are encouraged to apply. The successful can-
didate will have a record of high quality research in
evolutionary modeling. S/he is expected to develop and
maintain an independent research group, and to attract
extramural funding.
The position holder will be a co-leader of the Math-
ematics and Biosciences Group (MaBS), currently led
by Joachim Hermisson. Several other groups on campus
are involved in evolutionary genetics research, includ-
ing the groups of Magnus Nordborg (Gregor Mendel
Institute) and Arndt von Haeseler (Center for Inte-
grated Bioinformatics Vienna). Moreover, a diverse
group of researchers interact through activities of the
Vienna School of Population Genetics (www.popgen-
vienna.at), which attracts an international body of
graduate students. The Vienna Biocenter provides ac-
cess to an excellent core facility, including several Illu-
mina sequencers, bioinformatics services, and a high-
speed computer cluster.
The starting date is exible (spring 2013 or later). The
advertised position is a scientic tenure track position:
within the rst two years of employment the University
of Vienna may oer a qualication agreement if the sci-86 EvolDir January 1, 2013
entic performance of the employee suggests that the
required qualication can be reached. This agreement
is connected with the title of Assistant Professor [Assis-
tenzprofessorIn]. In case the goals of the qualication
agreement are met, the employment will be made per-
manent and the title of the employee will be changed
to Associate Professor [assoziierte/r ProfessorIn]. We
oer a competitive salary and a start-up package.
Application les:
* strict adherence to the form suggested below is not
essential as long as all key points are covered *
1. Application letter (max. 5 pages), to be structured
as follows: a. Achievements in research b. Experience
and activities in teaching (and advancement of young
researchers), teaching plans c. Achievements in knowl-
edge transfer and knowledge management d. Future
plans in research and contribution to the scientic pro-
le of the Faculty and the University, respectively
2. Enclosures: a. CV and degree certi-
cates/transcripts b. List of publications, including jour-
nal impact factors and number of citations, as well as
a list of the V in the opinion of the applicant V 5 most
important publications c. Scientic talks, also listing
the 5 most important ones d. Esteem factors (e.g. ex-
perience as publisher, functions in scientic societies
or program committees) e. Acquired third-party fund
projects (topic, runtime, origin, volume) f. Teaching
(and advancement of young researchers): courses held
at universities, supervised theses, teaching evaluations
(if existent) g. Names of three references with contact
details
Applications shall be submitted in English (preferably
as a single PDF) to facultyopenings@mfpl.ac.at, with cc
to joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at . Informal inquiries
can be sent to joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at . The
application period ends on January 4th, 2013. Women
are strongly encouraged to apply.
{ Joachim Hermisson Professor for Mathematics and
Biosciences University of Vienna Department for Math-
ematics Nordbergstr. 15, 1090 Vienna, Austria andMax F.Perutz Laboratories Dr.-Bohrgasse 9, 1030 Vi-
enna, Austria phone: +43 (0) 1 4277 50648
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
YaleU Palenotology
The Department of Geology & Geophysics at Yale
University solicits applications for a tenure-track fac-
ulty position. We seek candidates with outstanding
prospects for research and scholarly leadership who will
complement the existing strengths of the Department.
The successful applicants will develop and implement
independent, externally-funded research programs, ad-
vise students, and facilitate interdisciplinary research.
Geobiology (ID #2188). Relevant elds include, but
are not limited to: astrobiology, geomicrobiology, and
the interactions of Earth and life as revealed by the rock
record. This search is aliated with the Yale Institute
for Biospheric Studies.
Yale is an equal opportunity/armative action em-
ployer. Applications from women and minorities
are strongly encouraged. Applicants should sub-
mit a curriculum vitae, a statement of research and
teaching interests, and a list of publications, plus
the names and contact information of four referees.
Applications should be submitted online at https:/-
/academicjobsonline.org/ajo/yale/G&G. Applications
received prior to 1/1/2013 will receive full considera-
tion. For information regarding Yale Geology & Geo-
physics, visit our website at http://earth.yale.edu
Thomas Near <thomas.near@yale.edu >
OtherJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
Articial Evolving Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
ChicagoBotanicGarden UndergraduateSummerRe-
search . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
DIYABC answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
FieldMuseum NatHist ResearchPetition . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Fis signicance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
FrenchGuiana BiodiversityProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89
Fst estimation genome wide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Genbank instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89London LERN Debate How Why of Evolution Dec5 90
Microsatellite Multiplex Mix Query . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
PDF searchEngine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Rapeseed ErucicAcid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91
Scyliorhinus Squalus samples request . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Software FigTree v1 4 released . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UOxford VolFieldAssist SeabirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . 92
Unpublished Bateman data for meta-analysis . . . . . .93
Articial Evolving Systems
Call for Papers Special Issue on Evolvability and Ro-
bustness in Articial Evolving Systems for the Springer
journal Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines
Extended Deadline -\ April 30, 2013
The journal Genetic Programming and Evolvable Ma-
chines (GPEM) was founded to focus on articial evo-
lutionary systems that are active -" which take inputs
from their environment and act on them to produce
their behavior.
Short- and long-term evolution depends on the varia-
tional properties of the systems -\ how changes to their
structure maps to changes in their behavior (Altenberg,
1994). Robustness and evolvability are key variational
properties that themselves show evolutionary dynam-
ics. Active systems are an especially rich domain for
the evolution of robustness and evolvability since they
often allow for open-ended complexity.
GPEM is calling for papers for a special issue on Evolv-
ability and Robustness in Articial Evolving Systems.
A diversity of concepts under the rubrics of evolvability
and robustness have been introduced as the literature
on these subjects has expanded. This special issue is
open to the full range of these concepts. However, con-
fusion has entered the literature due to imprecise usage
of these terms. Therefore, a unique requirement for this
special issue will be that the authors provide precise
quantitative denitions for the aspects of -evolvability-
and -robustness- they investigate.
Examples of topics sought include: - The emergence, or
the engineering, of evolvability or robustness into arti-
cial evolutionary systems (AESs); - New theoretical un-
derstanding of the evolution of evolvability, robustness,
neutral networks, and their inter-relationships; - Case
studies of the evolution of evolvability, robustness, or
neutral networks in AESs; - Methodology for measuringevolvability and/or robustness; - Relationships between
1) the robustness of the AES-s behavior to variation in
inputs and environment, and 2) its robustness under
change from the genetic operators (e.g. -plasto-genetic
congruence- Ancel and Fontana (2000)); - Mechanisms
whereby variational properties of the environment or in-
puts can shape the variational properties of the AESs
under the genetic operators; - Generalization of the bi-
ological concept of distribution of mutation eects on
tness to the distribution of genetic operator eects on
the objective functions in AESs (Nordin and Banzhaf,
1995).
References Altenberg, L. 1994. The evolution of evolv-
ability in genetic programming. In Kinnear, K. E., ed-
itor, Advances in Genetic Programming, pages 47-"74.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
Ancel, L. W. and Fontana, W. 2000. Plasticity, evolv-
ability and modularity in RNA. Journal of Experimen-
tal Zoology (Molecular and Developmental Evolution),
288:242-\283.
Nordin, P. and Banzhaf, W. 1995. Complexity com-
pression and evolution. In Eshelman, L., editor, Ge-
netic Algorithms: Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-
tional Conference, pages 310-"317, San Francisco. Mor-
gan Kaufmann.
Important Dates: Submission deadline: April 30, 2013.
Notication of acceptance: June 30, 2013. Final
manuscript: August 31, 2013.
Paper Submission: Authors are encouraged to sub-
mit high-quality, original work that has neither ap-
peared in, nor is under consideration by, other jour-
nals. Springer oers authors, editors and review-
ers of Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines
a web-enabled online manuscript submission and re-
view system. Manuscripts should be submitted to:
http://GENP.edmgr.com. Instructions for Authors
may be found at http://www.springer.com/10710 .
All enquiries should be sent to Lee Altenberg at
gpem@dynamics.org .
Lee Altenberg, Ph.D. Associate Editor,88 EvolDir January 1, 2013
BioSystems Phone: (808) 344-1113, E-mail:
Lee.Altenberg@dynamics.org Web: http://-
dynamics.org/Altenberg/
ChicagoBotanicGarden
UndergraduateSummerResearch
Chicago Botanic Garden REU Site: Plant Biology &
Conservation Research Experiences for Undergraduates
- From Genes to Ecosystems.
More information at - http://www.cbgreu.org/ This
summer, the Chicago Botanic Garden and partner insti-
tutions will host 10 NSF-REU interns (Research Expe-
riences for Undergraduates) conducting research under
the broad theme of PLANT BIOLOGY AND CON-
SERVATION, from genetic to ecosystem levels of in-
quiry. Potential projects include work in systematics,
conservation biology, restoration ecology, biogeochem-
istry, and related elds. Students will gain laboratory
and eld experience, participate in professional devel-
opment activities, help mentor high-school student re-
searchers, and enjoy a fun social environment.
Participants should be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents who will be enrolled as undergraduates after sum-
mer 2013. They will receive a stipend of $4,750 and
room and board in downtown Chicago. Costs of travel
to and from Chicago will be covered. We encourage
applications from students who are members of groups
underrepresented in the sciences and students who have
limited research opportunities at their home institu-
tions. The application deadline is January 31, 2013,
and the 10-week program will run from June 10-August
16, 2013.
Interested undergraduates can nd more information
and apply at http://www.cbgreu.org. Questions can
be directed to info@cbgreu.org.
We also ask faculty, postdocs, graduate students, and
other undergraduate mentors to please help us spread
the word about this exciting opportunity to exceptional
undergraduates.
Jeremie Fant Chicago Botanic Garden http://-
www.cbgreu.org/ info@cbgreu.org
Lab@chicagobotanic.orgDIYABC answers
Dear all, Thank you for the reassuring feedback on
DIYABC. I have received a number of emails that seem
to agree on the following:
1. This beta version can be temperamental also with
Windows XP;
2. The \START" screen, when everything seems to
be ready to rock & roll, if often represents a 'freezing'
moment;
3. Sometimes, even if it seems to freeze and to 'not
respond', it may still produce the simulation data;
4. It doesn't seem to enjoy much changes in the default
settings;
5. Sometimes you need to start the analysis again 2 or
3 times, and then it works ne;
6. I personally got it to work after trying several times
and removing the nal mtDNA sequence (although it
had accepted it was there and took me through all the
settings);
7. I also banged on the desk furiously several times,
but I am unsure it had any inuence on the outcome.
8. There is a general sense of relief and expectation for
the release of the new version, which should be with us
before the end of the year.
Thank you so much again and good luck.
Stefano.
Dr. Stefano Mariani Reader in Wildlife Biology
jSchool of Environment & Life Sciences Room
316, Peel Building, University of Salford, Sal-
ford M5 4WT, UK t: +44 (0)161-295-6913 j
m: +44 (0)7712-689-871 s.mariani@salford.ac.uk j
www.salford.ac.uk/environment-life-sciences http:/-
/www.seek.salford.ac.uk/proles/SMariani.jsp Re-
searcher.ID: A-2964-2012
S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk
FieldMuseum NatHist
ResearchPetitionJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
Dear Members of ASPT,
I just signed the petition \Protect Research at Field
Museum of Natural History, Chicago" on Change.org.
It's important. Will you sign it too? Here's the link:
http://www.change.org/petitions/protect-research-
at-eld-museum-of-natural-history-chicago For more
information, see also:
http://www.nature.com/news/chicago-s-eld-
museum-cuts-back-on-science-1.12105 http://-
news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2012/12/budget-
cuts-hit-chicagos-eld-m.html?ref=em Thank you for
considering this!
Kathleen Pryer, Ph.D. President American Society of
Plant Taxonomists
etripp@rsabg.org
Fis signicance
Dear all, I have a huge SNP dataset (hundreds of indi-
viduals and about 50K markers) including several popu-
lations. I need to calculate the value of the Fis (inbreed-
ing coecient) index for each population, including the
level of statistical signicance of the index value.
The software and scripts I found so far only return the
index value but no statistical signicance.
Does anyone know a package, R script or algorithm able
to do this?
Thank you in advance.
Licia Colli
Licia Colli, PhD Istituto di Zootecnica - Facolt a di
Agraria Universit a Cattolica del S. Cuore via Emilia
Parmense, 84 29122 Piacenza (PC) Italy e-mail: li-
cia.colli@unicatt.it skype: liquid-diamond Tel: +39 -
0523599205 Fax: +39 - 0523599276
licia.colli@unicatt.it
FrenchGuiana BiodiversityProposals
Annual call for proposals CEBA 2013, French GuianaThe CEntre for the study of Biodiversity in Amazonia
(CEBA) is a Laboratory of Excellence based in French
Guiana aimed at fostering knowledge on terrestrial bio-
diversity. The Labex CEBA aims to coordinate re-
search capacity in France on the topic of Amazonian
terrestrial biodiversity, and to reinforce collaborations
with South American and other international partners.
Details are available at http://www.labex-ceba.fr The
Labex CEBA opens an annual competitive call for pro-
posals to encourage innovative research on biodiversity
in French Guiana. Projects will be evaluated by the
Scientic Board and by external referees.
The submission deadline is January 25th, 2013.
To access the call for proposals form: http:/-
/www.labex-ceba.fr/en/appel-a-projets-annuel-ceba/
Thanks is advance,
Amaia
Amaya IRIBAR-PELOZUELO
<amaya.pelozuelo@univ-tlse3.fr >
Fst estimation genome wide
Dear evoldir user,
I am working on a big dataset comprising more than
4000 individuals genotyped for ~1M SNPs. I would like
to estimate mean FST between populations as well as
for each locus.
I would be grateful to you if you could gently indicate
to me a relatively fast software or package to do it.
I will append all the answers when i will have them.
Thank you very much, Best Regards,
Francesco.
Francesco Montinaro <francesco.montinaro@gmail.com >
Genbank instructions
I have updated and corrected my instructions for
submitting DNA sequences for pop gen or phyloge-
netic studies to GenBank. http://peter.unmack.net/-
molecular/data.sub/data.deposition.instructions.html90 EvolDir January 1, 2013
I also broadened out the content on the website
to include various other helpful material relative to
molecular sequencing projects and analyses. http://-
peter.unmack.net/molecular/ This includes:
General lab advice
Various tips for organizing samples, data and les.
Primer design guide. Data deposition in Dryad, Tree-
Base and GenBank.
Data editing / datale creation advice
Guide to chromatogram editing and sequence checking.
Guide to using Chromas and BioEdit. Guide to data
le conversion (phylip, nexus, mega, fasta). Guide to
creating haplotype datasets and tables.
Program How-tos
How to run RAxML on CIPRES. Common PAUP anal-
ysis blocks for command line version. How to boot-
strap in TNT. Using TreeEdit to obtain a starting tree
in BEAST. How to make an Arlequin input le using
DnaSP. How to phase nuclear data in DnaSP.
Cheers Peter Unmack National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center Durham NC, USA
peter.mail2@unmack.net
London LERN Debate How Why of
Evolution Dec5
This year's LERN debate will take place next Wednes-
day (5th December) at 5.30pm in the Pearson G22
Lecture Theatre at UCL. See below (and our website
<http://londonevolutionarynetwork.wordpress.com/-
2012/11/28/lern-debate-2012/ >) for details.
{
*\This house believes that the distinction between
proximate and ultimate causes hinders a complete un-
derstanding of evolutionary processes."*
The topic will consider Ernst Mayr's distinction be-
tween proximate and ultimate explanations of be-
haviour, which has been hugely inuential in evolution-
ary theory. Are recent criticisms of this dichotomy in-
valid or does the direction of future research lie in the-
ory that incorporates interactions between proximate
and ultimate explanations?
*For:* Dr John Odling-Smee <http://lalandlab.st-
andrews.ac.uk/niche/WhoWeAre.html >(University ofOxford) Dr Tobias Uller <http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/-
people/view/uller t.htm >(University of Oxford)
*Against:* Professor Tom Dickens <https://-
sites.google.com/site/antianthropomorphism/ >
(Middlesex University) Dr Thom Scott-Phillips <
http://www.dur.ac.uk/anthropology/research/earg/-
earg members/earg proles/?mode=sta&id=10585 >
(University of Durham)
This is the fourth debate hosted by LERN. Each
speaker will get 15 minutes to present their ideas fol-
lowed by 5 minutes rebuttal time. There will be a 30
minute open Q&A period at the end of the talks. The
debate will be followed by a wine reception at 8pm.
The event is free for all to attend.
*Date and Time:* Wednesday 5th December 2012 from
5.30pm
*Location:* Pearson G22 Lecture Theatre, UCL, Gower
Street, London, WC1E 6BT [map <http://goo.gl/-
maps/QXV39 >]
The LERN Committee London Evolutionary Research
Network (LERN) http://www.londonevolution.net
http://twitter.com/londonevolution http://-
facebook.com/londonevolution http://vimeo.com/-
londonevolution londonevolution@gmail.com
Microsatellite Multiplex Mix Query
Hello, I'm setting up my supplies in my new lab and I'm
looking at 2x primer mixes for microsatelitte multiplex
PCR.
Has anyone had any experience using BIoline's \Im-
moMix" or \MyTaq HS Mix" with multiplexed mi-
crosatellites? How did you nd they did? How many
primers per multiplex were you using? How many (and
which) uorescent dyes?
I have experience using Qiagen's type-it multiplex PCR
and it worked extremely well, but I am purchasing a
lot of Bioline products and so I would get a better dis-
count overall if I bought from Bioline. That said, I do
not want to compromise quality or scoreability of my
microsatellites.
Any experience or advice will be much appreciated. I
will post responses unless you state you do not wish me
to.
AdrianJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
BU is a Disability Two Ticks Employer and
has signed up to the Mindful Employer char-
ter. Information about the accessibility of Uni-
versity buildings can be found on the BU Dis-
abledGo webpages [ http://www.disabledgo.com/en/-
org/bournemouth-university ]
blakea@bournemouth.ac.uk
PDF searchEngine
Dear colleague,
As you know, we all are facing diculties at any level
to get the full scientic article's text of our interest. For
this reason, I have developed a search engine in order
to nd free full scientic articles' text in PDF Format.
This search engine indexes more than 80 million free
references (mostly to journal articles, theses, patents
and posters).
You can try it at this address: http://-
www.freefullpdf.com I hope that this tool will
help you in your research domain.
Please contact me if you have open access articles that
are not indexed in this search engine (Open archives,
universities or laboratories websites ...).
Best regards,
Brice Sagot
Ph.D., Biotechnology
contact@freefullpdf.com contact@freefullpdf.com
Rapeseed ErucicAcid
Seeds from High Erucic Acid Rapeseed?
Does anybody have or knows where to order seeds from
High Erucic Acid Rapeseed (HEAR) lines of oilseed
rape (Brassica napus)? We intend to use the lines
in herbivory experiments where we will compare them
with lines low in erucic acid (LEAR). LEAR is the reg-
ular canola and such lines can easily be ordered here.
HEAR lines are grown for making oil for industrial pur-
poses, mostly in the US and Canada, and are not so
easily available. Any help is greatly appreciated,Tom J de Jong Associate Professor Institute of Biol-
ogy Leiden PO 9505, 2300 RA Leiden, the Netherlands
t.j.de.jong@biology.leidenuniv.nl
\T.J. de Jong" <T.J.de.Jong@biology.leidenuniv.nl >
Scyliorhinus Squalus samples
request
My name is Vasiliki Kousteni and I am studying the
species Scyliorhinus canicula and Squalus blainville in
the University of Athens (Greece).
I have collected several samples of both species from
Greek waters. However, in order to complete my analy-
sis i need about 70 n samples from each species species
from other seas (e.g. west MED, Atlantic). Of cource if
this is not possible also fewer samples could be usefull
for me.
So, i would like to ask you if you have samples of these
species or if you know someone that could probably
help me nding the samples that i need.
For your convenience I give you more details.
1.From each sh (it doesn?t matter if it is dead or alive
or if it is kept in fridge for years) you measure the to-
tal length and weight and you record the sex (male
or female). 2.You record the longitude/latitude of the
broader area where the shes were captured. 3.You cut
with a clean scissors a small piece from a n with di-
mensions about 2x1.5 cm. There is no problem from
which n the sample will be cut, as long as it is a n.
So it does not matter if it's a pectoral, dorsal etc. 4.You
put each n sample inside a labeled eppendorf with ab-
solute ethanol and you keep them in a cool area, if its
possible in a fridge, but not under the sun.
You don't have to worry about the cost of materi-
als used. I can easily mail you enough eppendorfs, 2
cases where you can put them into and cover all the
trasportation costs.
The scientic purpose of my study is the following: I
will use molecular markers in order to study the phy-
logeography of the species and to examine if there are
interactions among dierent populations.
For the purpose of the study an ocial paper can be
send to you, signed by my supervisor.
>From my experience I don?t think that there will be
any problem with licences.92 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Thank you again in advance.
For any more questions please do not hesitate to ask.
Kind regards Vasiliki Kousteni
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens De-
partment of Biology, Section of Zoology-Marine Biol-
ogy, Panepistimiopolis, 157 84, Ilissia Athens GREECE
Mob. : +30-6974145282
{ Katerina Vasileiadou
Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics Hellenic Cen-
tre for Marine Research (HCMR) P.O. Box 2214 71003
Heraklion Crete Greece
Tel: +30 2810 337842 Fax: +30 2810 337870
Hellenic Center for Marine Research This message was
sent using IMP, the Internet Messaging Program.
kvasileiadou@hcmr.gr
Software FigTree v1 4 released
I have just released a new version of FigTree (v1.4).
This is the rst new version since v1.3.1 was released
nearly 3 years ago (and which is now been downloaded
an amazing 129,873 times).
FigTree v1.4 has a range of new features including new
colouring schemes, node shapes (circles, diamonds and
squares) that can be sized and coloured by traits and
a new colour legend. Numerous bugs have been xed
too.
Download from the usual place:
http://tree.bio.ed.ac.uk/software/gtree Mac, Win-
dows and Linux versions are available.
Source code under a GPL2 license is available from:
http://code.google.com/p/gtree/ Please note that if
you try to install this on Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain
Lion) you may get an error that \program is damaged
and can't be opened" when you try to open the disk
image. To circumvent this problem you need to go into
System Preferences, Security & Privacy and then switch
\Allow applications downloaded from" to \Anywhere".
Thanks, Andrew
Andrew Rambaut Institute of Evolutionary Biology
University of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories Edin-
burgh EH9 3JT EMAIL - a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk TEL -
+44 131 6508624Andrew Rambaut <a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >
UOxford VolFieldAssist
SeabirdEvolution
Voluntary research assistantship in seabird behaviour
& ecology Skomer Island & University of Oxford
We are looking for an enthusiastic, hardworking young
biologist to work as a voluntary Research Assistant to
help with our pelagic seabird research on Skomer Is-
land, Pembrokeshire, Wales, in Spring and Summer
2013. The work will involve several research projects
coordinated by Prof Tim Guilford at Oxford's Depart-
ment of Zoology (see http://oxnav.zoo.ox.ac.uk/). We
utilise state-of-the art tracking technologies (miniature
GPS, geolocators, time-depth recorders & on-board
video), and comprehensive automated activity moni-
toring systems (RFID controlled burrow-nest sensing
networks) on several species (Manx Shearwaters, At-
lantic Puns, Common Guillemots, Razorbills). Most
work will involve assisting two doctoral students with
the day-to-day maintenance of the burrow sensing sys-
tems, weighing and monitoring breeding birds and their
chicks, and the deployment and retrieval/downloading
of tracking devices. It will also involve entering data
collected in the eld into appropriate databases. There
will be a signicant amount of nocturnal work, since the
primary study species is the Manx Shearwater, which
only arrives at the colony after dark. There will also be
scope for involvement in other conservation and ecolog-
ical projects on the island, which is a National Nature
Reserve administered by the Wildlife Trust of South
and West Wales.
Unfortunately we cannot provide a stipend but accom-
modation (shared and basic) expenses on Skomer will
be covered. However, the project is a great opportunity
to gain valuable experience in modern eld ornithol-
ogy. There will also be opportunities for the assistant
to learn some analytical techniques applied to animal
movement data. Skomer has mobile coverage and some
access to Internet, however movements to and from the
mainland are limited due to unpredictable wind condi-
tions. There is a small community of wardens, assis-
tants and volunteers, who are involved in the running
and conservation of the Nature Reserve, monitoring the
seabird populations, and managing the daily and over-
night visitors. There might be opportunities to visit
other UK island reserves during the project.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
Prole: we are looking for a motivated and hardworking
biologist, who likes working in the eld and can cope
with dicult working and living conditions. Previous
experience in the eld or in harsh conditions is desir-
able, but not essential. Work on Skomer requires long
hours (with some work at night and at dawn) spent in
a cold and wet environment and considerable manual
work. A good candidate should be able to work inde-
pendently and have a reasonable level of tness. Plan-
ning to embark on further research degrees in the fu-
ture would be a plus (previous assistants have engaged
in doctoral studies afterwards). It is also important
that the assistant feels comfortable sharing sometimes
crowded accommodation with a number of colleagues
over long periods of time, and can cope with the occa-
sional untidiness inevitably associated with eldwork.
Unfortunately, for administrative reasons, we can only
accept applications from people having permission to
work in the UK (UK and EU citizens, UK residents, or
persons with a UK work permit).
We are looking for an assistant to work with us
between April and September 2013. If you are
interested, please email a CV and a statement
of interest and arrange for two letters of refer-
ence to be emailed to tim.guilford@zoo.ox.ac.uk
(with akiko.shoji@zoo.ox.ac.uk and an-
nette.fayet@zoo.ox.ac.uk in cc). The deadline for
submitting applications (including reference letters)
is the 20th January 2013. Skype interviews will be
held early February and we expect to make a decision
before the end of February.
Annette Fayet
DPhil student Oxford Navigation Group Department
of Zoology University of Oxford
annette.fayet@sjc.ox.ac.uk
Unpublished Bateman data for
meta-analysisRE: Other: Unpublished Bateman data for meta-
analysis
Dear Colleagues,
We are currently conducting a meta-analysis with the
aim to identify general patterns of how sexual selection
operates across sexually reproducing organisms. Specif-
ically, we want to assess overall variation in the 3 pa-
rameters underlying the classic ^ aBateman's principles'
and their co-variation with key traits of breeding sys-
tems (e.g. sex ratios, parental care, etc.).
Given that meta-analyses are sensitive to publication
biases, we are looking for unpublished datasets that
allow tests for at least one of the classical ^ aBateman
parameters'.
Specically, we are interested in any unpublished study
(including plants!) that provide data on
(1) Variances in reproductive success of males and fe-
males (and/or) (2) Variances in mating success of males
and females (and/or) (3) Bateman gradients (= sexual
selection gradients) of males and females
If you have, or know of, such unpublished data sets,
we would love to hear about it. Moreover, if you are
aware of published work that provides this type of in-
formation but may go unnoticed in database searches
applying search terms like ^ aBateman slope', ^ asexual se-
lection gradient' or ^ aopportunity for (sexual) selection'
we are happy about notice.
Please email suggestions or questions to: jan-
icke.tim@gmail.com
Many thanks in advance!
Tim Janicke (CEFE-CNRS, Montpellier) Ines H aderer
(University of Tuebingen) Nils Anthes (University of
Tuebingen)
{
Tim Janicke Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evo-
lutive CNRS-UMR 5175 1919 Route de Mende 34293
Montpellier Cedex 05
Phone: ++33 (0) 4 67 61 32 59 Fax: ++33
(0) 4 67 61 33 36 E-mail: janicke.tim@gmail.com
Home: http://timjanicke.wordpress.com/ Tim Janicke
<janicke.tim@gmail.com >94 EvolDir January 1, 2013
PostDocs
AustralianNatlU 2 AmphibianReptilePhylogenetics 94
BrighamYoungU DragonyPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . 95
BrownU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Cornell LandscapeGenomics reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
CzechRep EvolEcolInvasions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
DalhousieU LakeTroutPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
EmoryU VisionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
FredHutchinson Seattle MicrobesComputationalEvol
98
HarvardU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
IndianaU MicrobeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Lisbon EvolutionaryEpistemology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
MaxPlanck 4 Ornithology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
MaxPlanck 4 Ornithology 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
MaxPlanck Jena Bioinformatics genomics . . . . . . . . 102
MaxPlanck Leipzig EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 103
MaxPlanck Ploen 3 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . 103
Moncton NewBrunswick FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . .104
Montpellier PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
NHMLondon BiodiversityGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Smithsonian PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
StLouisU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
TubingenU Paeleogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .107UBrussels DrosophilaSocialNetworks . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UCalifornia SanFrancisco MalariaPopGen . . . . . . . . 108
UCollegeCork Ireland FishQuantGenetics . . . . . . . . 108
UFlorida SeasonalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UGroningen EvolutionarySystemsBiology . . . . . . . . 110
UHelsinki AdaptingToEutrophication . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UHelsinki ButteryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
UIllinois MaizePhysiologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
ULeuven 2 VertebrateEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UMassachusetts Lowell EvolutionaryGenomics . . . 114
UMontana PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . .114
UNebraska FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
UNebraska MacroevolutionFlowerColor . . . . . . . . . . .115
UStirling Pollination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
USydney 2 ToadEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UTexas Austin EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
UWashington StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
UYork MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Umea Sweden Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .119
UppsalaU EvolEcolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Vienna PhylogenyPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
WashingtonU SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
AustralianNatlU 2
AmphibianReptilePhylogenetics
Two 3-year positions are available in the Moritz/Keogh
labs at the Australian National University. Appointees
will be key players in an exciting collaborative research
program that seeks to develop and apply phylogenomic
methods to the relatively unexplored amphibian and
reptile diversity of Australia's monsoonal tropics, and
then to apply the resulting knowledge of species bound-
aries and relationships to improve taxonomy and con-
servation.
1. Molecular systematist. Research Ocer (ANU
level 5/6) to support mtDNA phylogenomic analy-
ses of northern Australian herpetofauna. This posi-
tion is funded by an ARC linkage grant to Moritz,
Keogh, Donnellan (SAM), Doughty (WAM), Byrne,
Coates and Thiele (DECWA) which seeks to quan-
tify phylogeographic diversity and delimit new species
across the Kimberley in particular, and to apply thisknowledge to advance conservation planning in the re-
gion. Further details are at: http://jobs.anu.edu.au/-
PositionDetail.aspx?p=3D3107 2. Field herpetologist
and taxonomist. Research Ocer (ANU level 5/6) to
support eld work and taxonomic revisions of northern
Australian herpetofauna. This position, funded by an
ABRS grant to Moritz & Keogh, will play a lead role in
eld surveys and sampling of frogs and lizards from the
Top End and Kimberley, undertake phenotypic analy-
ses of museum specimens from relevant taxa and as-
sist in descriptions of new species diagnosed through
phylogenomic and phenotypic analyses. Further details
are at: http://jobs.anu.edu.au/PositionDetail.aspx?p=
3D3130 Both positions require a BSc Hons in an ap-
propriate discipline and/or relevant experience. Ap-
plications close on January 19th, 2013 and should
be submitted via the ANU (jobs.anu.edu.au). En-
quiries are welcome and should be sent to Craig Moritz
(craig.moritz@anu.edu.au). However, responses should
not be expected prior to January 2nd.
Craig Moritz Research School of Biology & Cntr for
Biodiversity Anlysis Australian National University
+61 2 6125 5651 (CM oce) +61 2 6125 9492 (via
Claire, M-W am only)January 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
gekkojessie@gmail.com
BrighamYoungU
DragonyPhylogenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Bybee lab at
Brigham Young University in the Department of Biol-
ogy starting during the summer of 2013. The successful
applicant will work as part of a team to produce a phy-
logeny of both fossil and extant Odonata (dragonies
and damselies), as well as examine the evolution of
their color visual systems.
The position is funded for a period of up to three years.
There will be ample opportunity for the successful can-
didate to develop additional research projects as time
and funding permit.
To be considered it is expected that all applicants will
have nished their PhD by August of 2013 in bioinfor-
matics, invertebrate evolutionary biology and/or phylo-
genetics. Preferably, applicants will have a background
in organismal biology but all serious applicants will be
considered. Interested applicants should send a cover
letter outlining current research interests, future career
goals and mentoring experience, as well as a CV and
the names and contact details of three references to
Seth Bybee at seth.bybee@gmail.com.
The Ecology and Evolutionary Ecology group at
Brigham Young University is a diverse set of faculty
working on plants, animals, and microbes in the ar-
eas of evolutionary ecology, conservation biology, bio-
geography, phylogeography, population and community
ecology, biogeochemistry, evolutionary and ecological
stoichiometry, and ecosystem ecology. There is a focus
on integrating modeling, theory, and experimentation.
The Molecular Systematics group features faculty work-
ing in both model and non-model systems in experimen-
tal laboratory and eld applications. Specic areas of
research include genomics (experimental and computa-
tional), molecular evolution, population genetics, quan-
titative genetics, biogeography, phylogeography, and
the evolution of genetic and infectious diseases.
Brigham Young University is aliated with and
sponsored by The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints. All students and faculty are
required to abide by the university's honor code
and dress and grooming standards: http://-
saas.byu.edu/catalog/2011-2012ucat/GeneralInfo/-HonorCode.php#HCOceInvovement .It is an equal
opportunity employer, does not discriminate on the
basis of race, color, gender, age, national origin,
veteran status, or against qualied individuals with
disabilities.
BYU is located in the heart of the Rocky Mountains
in Provo Utah with world famous attractions (e.g., na-
tional parks, ski resorts, etc.) close by. Year round,
outdoor activities such as Skiing, hiking and biking are
all within a 20 minute drive of campus.
Contact Information
Seth Bybee, PhD
Assistant Professor
Department of Biology
401 WIDB
Provo, UT 84602
801-422-3152
Seth.bybee@gmail.com
seth.bybee@gmail.com
BrownU PlantEvolution
The Edwards lab at Brown University is looking for
a post-doctoral research associate to join our ongoing
eorts focused on the evolution of succulence and al-
ternative photosynthetic syndromes in the Caryophyl-
lales. The postdoc will take the lead in the molecu-
lar/phylogenomic aspects of the project. We are cur-
rently exploring various NGS approaches to phylogenet-
ics, and she/he will be responsible for generating and
analyzing all of these data types. She/he will also take
responsibility for general oversight of the molecular lab.
While some goals are quite rm (e.g., improved phylo-
genies for several clades within Caryophyllales), there
will be plenty of opportunity to develop other projects
based on the applicant's own interests- this will be ac-
tively encouraged. The successful candidate will be
a highly motivated, independent, careful scientist and
team player. She/he will have a proven track record
in project design, data collection, analysis, and publi-
cation. Previous experience with library prep/analysis
of next-gen sequencing, working eciently with large
datasets, and good computing and analytical skills are
also important qualities.
The position start date is exible, and the initial ap-96 EvolDir January 1, 2013
pointment will be for one year, with an opportunity
for extension. To apply, please send a research state-
ment, a current CV, and contact information for three
references (and please, send this as a single PDF doc-
ument) to Erika Edwards (erika edwards@brown.edu).
Applications will be reviewed starting immediately and
accepted until the position is lled. Brown University
is an EEO/AA employer.
Erika J. Edwards Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Brown University 80 Waterman St Box
G-W Providence, RI 02912
oce: 401.863.2081 lab: 401.863.6275 fax:
401.863.2166
email: erika edwards@brown.edu
lab website: http://www.brown.edu/Research/-
Edwards Lab/index.php erika edwards@brown.edu
Cornell LandscapeGenomics
reminder
Postdoctoral Research Position in Comparative Land-
scape Population Genomics.
A postdoctoral position is available to work in the Za-
mudio (Cornell University) and Funk (Colorado State
University) laboratories on the NSF-funded project
EVOTRAC (Evolutionary and Ecological Variability
in Organismal Trait Response with Altitude and Cli-
mate). EVOTRAC is a trait-based and integrative
project studying species vulnerability to climate change
in temperate and tropical stream ecosystems, using
physiological, population genetic, ecological, and bio-
geochemical approaches.
The postdoc will reside primarily in the Zamudio labo-
ratory, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, Cornell University, but will be active across labora-
tories to integrate the comparative population genomic
data for the project. More information on EVOTRAC
can be found at http://www.eeb.cornell.edu/evotrac/-
welcome.html Description
We are seeking an enthusiastic and independent post-
doc to be the lead researcher in analysis of dispersal
of aquatic insects and frogs within and among streams
using genomic markers (genome-wide SNPs). Primary
responsibilities of this position include: 1) plan and
oversee sample collections in Colorado and Ecuador
in collaboration with other EVOTRAC labs 2) char-acterize markers for 20 target species, including SNP
assays through restriction-site associated DNA (RAD)
tag approaches 3) conduct lab research to genotype and
quantify dispersal in focal taxa 4) lead data analyses
and manuscript preparation 5) coordinate undergradu-
ate projects on related research.
Preference will be given to applicants who have experi-
ence in molecular biology, and specically in the com-
plexities of laboratory and computational techniques in
landscape genetics/genomics and molecular estimates
of dispersal.
Qualications Applicants must have a PhD in biol-
ogy, molecular biology, genetics, or related eld. Ap-
plicants should have demonstrated experience in col-
lection of comparative population genetic data, strong
eld and laboratory skills, a consistent record of high-
quality publications, and the ability to work indepen-
dently, but also participate in collaborative team-based
projects. EVOTRAC will require periods of eldwork
and the ability to work in remote and sometimes chal-
lenging eld conditions. Working knowledge of Spanish
is highly desirable.
Terms of Appointment Starting salary is $39,500-
44,000, depending on experience. Funds are available
for one year, and renewable for a second pending satis-
factory progress. The position is available starting May
2013; starting date is negotiable.
Application Review of applications will begin January
15, 2013, and continue until a suitable candidate is
found. To apply, please send cover letter, CV, a state-
ment of research interests/experiences, representative
publications, and names and contact information for
three references that are familiar with your work. Ap-
plications (PDF format) should be e-mailed to Kelly
Zamudio (kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu), Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University,
Ithaca, NY 14853-2701.
Cornell University is an equal opportunity, arma-
tive action educator and employer. Applications from
women and minorities are encouraged.
Kelly R. Zamudio Professor of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2701
kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu
CzechRep EvolEcolInvasionsJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 97
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION 29
MONTHS, FIXED-TERM, FROM FEBRUARY 2013
APPLICATIONS CLOSE 15 JANUARY 2013
TOPIC: The impact of biological invasions on recipro-
cal relationship between bitterling sh and freshwater
mussels
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE CZECH RE-
PUBLIC
One postdoctoral position is available in team of Martin
Reichard at the Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Czech
Academy of Sciences, located in Brno, Czech Republic
(http://www.ivb.cz/sh/reichard.html) from February
2013 to June 2015. Formal appointment is at Institute
of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences in Prague, as a
part of a large project with 10 postdoctoral positions.
PROJECT The aim is to quantify the costs and ben-
ets in reciprocal relationship between bitterling sh
and freshwater mussels. Bitterling lay their eggs
into the gills of unionid mussels and mussels pos-
sess a larval stage parasitizing sh. Pilot study
demonstrated that either the bitterling or the mussel
may gain more benet in this coevolutionary associ-
ation and the roles of the host and parasite can be
completely reversed (http://www.nature.com/news/-
invasive-species-turns-parasites-into-hosts-1.10028).
The project combines respirometry, histology, genetics
and behavioural ecology and is based on comparative
(interspecic and interpopulation) approach. Field-
work in Europe and China.
QUALIFICATIONS - PhD in Biology and experience
with eld work and experiments is required - compe-
tence in aquatic respirometry or histology would be ad-
vantage (as complementary to our expertise)
SALARY 45 000 CZK, c. 1800 EUR per month
APPLICATION PROCEDURE Consult full documen-
tation, available at: http://www.ibot.cas.cz/sites/-
File/prac mista/vyberove%20rizeni postdoci AJ.pdf
For this position, code is 'Selected position: postdoc
No. 1.a.1'
Please explain your previous work and motivation to
apply for this position in your Cover Letter.
For informal enquires and more details (encouraged),
please email reichard@ivb.cz
Martin Reichard Institute of Vertebrate Biology
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic Kvetna 8,
603 65 Brno Czech Republic http://www.ivb.cz/sh/-
reichard.html reichard@ivb.czDalhousieU LakeTroutPopGenomics
Postdoctoral position
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in Paul
Bentzen's laboratory in the Department of Biology at
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia. Core re-
sponsibilities for the researcher will be to work with
existing data sets on microsatellite and mtDNA varia-
tion in lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) populations
that display sympatric morphological and/or ecotypic
divergence in several large lakes scattered across North
America, with the aim of producing several publications
for the primary literature. Opportunities will also ex-
ist for the researcher to conduct further, novel research
on the population genomics of lake trout or other sh
species, using approaches such as RADseq.
Qualied candidates will have or be about to receive
a PhD degree, expertise in population genetic analy-
ses and research interests in evolutionary or conserva-
tion genetics. Experience with geometric morphomet-
ric analysis and/or analysis of RAD data would also be
benecial.
The starting date is exible, but could be as early as
January, 2013. The position is for 2 years, with the pos-
sibility of renewal for a third year. Starting salary will
be $40,000 (Canadian). Interested individuals should
contact Paul Bentzen (paul.bentzen@dal.ca). Formal
applications should include a CV, cover letter with a
statement of research interests, and sample publica-
tions, but feel free to contact me rst with informal
queries.
{ Paul Bentzen Professor Dept. of Biology Dalhousie
University 902-494-1105
Paul Bentzen <paul.bentzen@dal.ca >
EmoryU VisionEvolution
The Long-term goal of our NIH-funded research is to
elucidate the mechanisms of the spectral tuning of vi-
sual pigments and adaptive evolution of dim-light and
color vision.98 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Selected References: Yokoyama, S., Tada, T., Zhang,
H. and Britt, L. (2008) Elucidation of phenotypic adap-
tations: molecular analyses of dim-light vision proteins
in vertebrates. PNAS 105: 13480-13485.
Tada, T., Altun, A. and Yokoyama, S. (2009) Evolu-
tionary replacement of UV vision by violet vision in
sh. PNAS 106: 17457-17462.
Yokoyama, S. (2012) Synthesis of experimental molecu-
lar biology and evolutionary biology: an example from
the world of vision. BioScience 62 (11): 939-948.
Altun, A., Morokuma, K. and Yokoyama, S. (2011)
Hydrogen-bond network around retinal regulates the
evolution of ultraviolet and violet vision.
ACS Chemical Biology 6: 775-780. Sekharan, S.,
Yokoyama, S. and Morokuma, K. (2011) Quantum Me-
chanical/Molecular Mechanical structure, enantioselec-
tivity, and spectroscopy of hydroxyretinals and insights
into the evolution of color vision in small white butter-
ies. J. Phys. Chem. B. 115 (51): 15380-15388.
We are looking for recent graduates who are well versed
in experimental molecular genetics/biotechnology. If
you are interested, please send CV to Shozo Yokoyama
(syokoya@emory.edu).
Shozo Yokoyama, Ph. D. Asa G. Candler Profes-
sor of Biology Department of Biology Emory Univer-
sity 1510 Clifton Road Rollins Research Center At-
lanta, GA 30322 Tel:404-727-5379 FAX:404-727-2880
Email:syokoya@emory.edu
syokoya@emory.edu
FredHutchinson Seattle
MicrobesComputationalEvol
Our group at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center in Seattle is looking for a strong student, post-
doc, or programmer to write code and analyze data. We
develop and apply methods for the evolutionary analy-
sis of next-generation DNA sequence data for research
on pathogenic and commensal microbes.
This job will involve algorithm development, ecient
implementation, web tool deployment, and collabora-
tion with lab biologists. You will need to be mathe-
matically procient, have some serious coding chops,
and be passionate about biology. On the math side of
things, you should at least able to read an algorithms
paper and implement what you see there, and at bestbe able to develop your own theory and algorithms. For
coding, we aren't as focused on the specic language as
long as you are capable of writing succinct code that
is well documented and robust. Linux experience is
a must though, and this job will denitely involve a
considerable amount of Python and R, as well as some
C++11 (and some OCaml if you are keen). We hope
you are excited by biology (even if you know rather lit-
tle) and enthusiastic about collaborating with kick-ass
biologists.
If you are from academia, this will be a fun and intense
experience that will prepare you for further research in
a rapidly developing and important eld. We will help
you quickly nd your own area to work on, and will
emphasize development of your research program with
corresponding rst-author papers. The group is pro-
ductive and there are a number of outstanding projects
that are currently waiting for a champion.
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, home of
about 190 faculty including two Nobel laureates, is an
independent, nonprot research institution dedicated
to the development and advancement of biomedical re-
search. We like having the team present for a mid-
morning stand-up meeting, but other than that your
schedule will be your own, as long as those commits
keep coming. You will be joining a core group of one
group leader and two programmers, as well as a larger
community of statisticians, programmers and hundreds
of biologists. The environment here is supportive and
highly collaborative.
The salary for this job is competitive for junior-level
programmers, grad students and postdocs. The center
has great benets and a lovely campus next to Lake
Union within walking distance from downtown. Pow-
erful computing resources and a helpful IT sta await
you.
This is a great opportunity to work on cutting-edge re-
search with brilliant collaborators.
Requirements
* PhD in a relevant eld * a high level of linux pro-
ciency (at least three years) * top-notch programming
skills in either C, C++, or Python * interest in bioin-
formatics * experience using a VCS, preferably git * the
ability to work independently with a long-range goal in
mind * R experience a plus * SQL experience a plus
Please send a CV and signicant code sample to Er-
ick Matsen at matsen@fhcrc.org. The code should be
DRY, well documented, and show that you can use
some non-trivial features of your chosen language. The
best-case scenario would be if you could point us to an
open source project you have worked on in one of ourJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 99
favorite languages.
You can see a more general version of this job posting
at http://matsen.fhcrc.org/openings.html Thank you,
Erick
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
HarvardU PlantEvolution
Katharine H. Putnam Fellowships in Plant Science
Application Deadline: February 1, 2013
The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University invites
applicants for research fellowships in plant science.
Putnam Fellowships oer excellent opportunities for ad-
vanced research and study using the Arboretum's living
collections of trees and shrubs. Scientists and horticul-
turists with a PhD and who have identied a research
project that would utilize the Arboretum's living col-
lections are encouraged to apply.
Putnam Fellows conduct basic and applied research in
the plant sciences. The goal of the program is to fa-
cilitate the research use of the Arboretum's living col-
lections, thereby stimulating their use within the larger
scientic community. The research topics of past Put-
nam Fellows have included taxonomy and systematics,
physiological ecology, propagation, plant-insect and/or
-pathogen interactions, and collections management.
The Putnam Fellowship Program has attracted a di-
verse array of scholars, and many have gone on to be
leaders in academia and public horticulture.
For further information please visit: http://-
arboretum.harvard.edu/research/fellowships/putnam-
fellowships-in-plant-science/ For additional opportu-
nities please visit: http://arboretum.harvard.edu/-
research/fellowships/ AA/EEO: Harvard University is
an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Pamela K Diggle
Visiting Professor Department of Organismic and Evo-
lutionary Biology Harvard University
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Colorado
diggle@fas.harvard.eduIndianaU MicrobeEvolution
Post-doctoral position: linking plant traits, microbial
communities, and climate change in peatland ecosys-
tems.
A post-doctoral position is available for a qualied in-
dividual to study response of structure and function of
microbial communities in peatland ecosystems to cli-
mate change at Michigan Technological University, in
collaboration with the US Forest Service Northern Re-
search Station and Indiana University. Full support is
available for two years support for a post-doc to work
on two projects: 1) the PEATcosm experiment and 2)
a hemispheric-scale analysis of peatland microbial and
fungal communities. The PEATcosm experiment con-
ducted at the USFS mesocosm facility (http://goo.gl/-
koFpE) is an NSF- funded experiment in which we are
examining climate change and plant community eects
on peatland bacterial and fungal communities and car-
bon cycling. We have also received Community Se-
quencing Program support from the Joint Genome In-
stitute for an extensive study of peatland microbial and
fungal community structure at sites across the globe
involved in carbon cycling/trace gas ux studies. This
opportunity for integrative research at both the exper-
imental and global scale will be an excellent opportu-
nity to focus on macro- and micro-scales of microbe-
ecosystem interactions.
Highly qualied candidates will have experience with
next-generation sequencing of microbial communities;
competency in quantitative methods, including multi-
variate statistics and bioinformatics; an interest in eld-
based experiments; and a strong background in micro-
bial ecology, ecosystems ecology, peatland ecology, or a
related eld.
The candidate would be based primar-
ily at Michigan Tech in the Lilleskov Lab
(nrs.fs.fed.us/people/lilleskov). Depending on interest,
there is an opportunity to spend time in the Lennon
Lab at Indiana University (indiana.edu/ ~microbes/).
The candidate would work in collaboration with other
investigators on the PEATcosm project and related
peatland research at Michigan Tech (with PIs Erik
Lilleskov, Evan Kane, Rod Chimner, Tom Pypker),
co-PI Jay Lennon at Indiana University, and collabo-
rators from the global project (Mark Waldrop, Chris
Schadt, Nathan Basiliko, Randy Kolka, Merritt Turet-100 EvolDir January 1, 2013
sky, Susannah Tringe, Dan McLaughlin, Eeva-Stiina
Tuittila, Carl Trettin, Ruth Varner, Tim Moore, and
others).
Michigan Tech is located on Michigan's Keweenaw
Peninsula on the south shore of Lake Superior, a re-
gion dominated by vast areas of lakes, forests and wet-
lands. Michigan Tech is in the small university town of
Houghton, MI, which was rated as one of the top 10 U.S.
adrenaline outposts by National Geographic Adventure
Magazine, boasting excellent skiing, hiking, kayaking
and mountain biking. Indiana University is located in
Bloomington, a city of approximately of 80,000 peo-
ple. The city and region has excellent outdoor (biking,
hiking, caving) and cultural (restaurants, music, enter-
tainment) opportunities.
Consideration of applications begins immediately and
will continue until the position is lled. Start date is as
soon as possible, but no later than June 2013. Please
send a cover letter that states your research interests,
your curriculum vitae, the names and contact informa-
tion for three references, and any other relevant materi-
als, by email to Erik Lilleskov (elilleskov@fs.fed.us) and
Jay Lennon (lennonj@indiana.edu).
Jay T. Lennon Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology Indiana University 1001 E. 3rd Street Bloom-
ington, IN 47405 812-856-0962 (oce) 812-856-7235
(lab) 812-855-6082 (fax) lennonj@indiana.edu web:
indiana.edu/ ~microbes wiki: indiana.edu/ ~lennon
Lennon Jay <lennonj@indiana.edu >
Lisbon EvolutionaryEpistemology
please distribute and apologies for cross postings
AppEEL, the Lisbon Applied Evolutionary Epistemol-
ogy Lab of the Centre for Philosophy of Science of the
Faculty of Science of the University of Lisbon is actively
seeking to expand its interdisciplinary research team.
Pending on budgetary approval, the following positions
will open from September 1st, 2013 until May 31st,
2016:
2 yearlong Post-Doctoral Research Positions (non-
accumulable)
http://appeel.fc.ul.pt/sub/new/dir/postdoctoral.html
4 yearlong PhD Fellowships (non-accumulable)
http://appeel.fc.ul.pt/sub/new/dir/-phdfellowships.html
3, 6 and 12 monthlong Visiting Doctoral and Post-
Doctoral Fellowships (accumulable with an existing
grant)
http://appeel.fc.ul.pt/sub/new/dir/-
doctoralandresearch.html
The positions are open to researchers active in the fol-
lowing research elds:
Philosophy & History of Biology
Evolutionary Biology, Paleontology, Molecular Biology,
Symbiology, Virology, Botany
Evolutionary, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Evo-
lutionary Archeology
Evolutionary Linguistics
Evolutionary Psychology
Bioinformatics, Articial Intelligence, Computational
Biology/Linguistics/Anthropology
We especially invite research proposals that focus on:
The nature and scope of the Extended Synthesis in
Evolutionary Biology and/or the Sociocultural domain
Applied Evolutionary Epistemology, the Units and
Levels of Evolution Debate and Hierarchy Theory
Micro- and Macroevolutionary studies in Biology
and/or the Sociocultural sciences
Horizontal and non-gradual vertical evolutionary stud-
ies in Biology and/or the Sociocultural Sciences
The application of Bioinformatics and computational
techniques to model Biological and Sociocultural Evo-
lution
Applications and inquiries can be send to Nathalie Gon-
tier at nlgontier@fc.ul.pt by February 1st, 2013 and
must include the following information:
The ID number of the specic position you are apply-
ing for
A full CV
A motivational letter
A research proposal of max. 1.500 words (+/- 3 pages,
12 font size)
Minimally 1, maximally 3 letters of recommendation
AppEEL, the Centre for Philosophy of Science, The
Faculty of Science, and the University of Lisbon are an
equal opportunity employee and we welcome submis-
sions from people with special needs.
Nathalie Gontier, PhD Lisbon Applied Evolution-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 101
ary Epistemology Lab Centre for Philosophy of
Science Faculty of Science, University of Lis-
bon http://appeel.fc.ul.pt AppEEL Announcements
<appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt >
MaxPlanck 4 Ornithology
The Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Vogel-
warte Radolfzell, is an internationally renowned re-
search institution working in the eld of Animal Mi-
gration and is leading the ICARUS Project, the Inter-
national Cooperation for Animal Research Using Space
(www.icarusinitiative.org). We are building up an
interdisciplinary Management, Technical/Engineering
and Research Team on satellite-based global animal
tracking within the ICARUS project. We have four
open positions
- Engineer with a background in bio-telemetry or com-
munication - 3 Research Scientists in animal movement
We are looking for highly motivated people with good
communication skills and international work back-
ground who are willing to collaborate in a small, eec-
tive team. All team members are keen to interact with
industrial space engineering partners and national and
international space agencies. The engineer will work
with the space industry, biotelemetry outts and an-
imal ecologists towards enabling tag-to- satellite com-
munication. The three research scientists will test and
prepare ICARUS systems in the lab and the wild. We
are looking for one research scientist with special skills
in immuno-ecology.
The positions are initially limited to 2 years and will
be supervised by Prof. Martin Wikelski and ICARUS
manager Uschi Mueller. The researcher can expect an
outstanding scientic environment and excellent sup-
port at this newly re-established department of the Max
Planck Institute of Ornithology in Radolfzell, Baden-
W urttemberg, at Lake Constance. The ICARUS team
works at the University of Konstanz, a ,cluster of ex-
cellence' university. The language at the institute is
English.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max Planck Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position. To increase the
employment of women in areas where they are under-
represented, the Max Planck Society also encourages
women to apply for this position. Payment and bene-
ts are according to the German TV oD, with the pre-cise salary level (up to maximum level 14), depend-
ing on personal qualications. There will be further
social benets according to the provision of the pub-
lic sector. The positions will begin in January 2013.
Screening of applications will begin on December 15th,
2012. For further details, please contact Uschi Mueller
(umueller@orn.mpg.de, phone: +49 7531-884725). Ap-
plicants should submit a CV, a1
2-page statement of
work interest, and three references to:
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Personal-
abteilung Eberhard-Gwinnerstr. D-82319 Seewiesen or
per Email: personal@orn.mpg.de
\Mueller, Uschi" <umueller@orn.mpg.de >
MaxPlanck 4 Ornithology 2
The Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Vogel-
warte Radolfzell, is an internationally renowned re-
search institution working in the eld of Animal Mi-
gration and is leading the ICARUS Project, the Inter-
national Cooperation for Animal Research Using Space
(www.icarusinitiative.org). We are building up an
interdisciplinary Management, Technical/Engineering
and Research Team on satellite-based global animal
tracking within the ICARUS project. We have four
open positions
- Engineer with a background in bio-telemetry or com-
munication - 3 Research Scientists in animal movement
We are looking for highly motivated people with good
communication skills and international work back-
ground who are willing to collaborate in a small, eec-
tive team. All team members are keen to interact with
industrial space engineering partners and national and
international space agencies. The engineer will work
with the space industry, biotelemetry outts and an-
imal ecologists towards enabling tag-to-satellite com-
munication. The three research scientists will test and
prepare ICARUS systems in the lab and the wild. We
are looking for one research scientist with special skills
in immuno-ecology.
The positions are initially limited to 2 years and will
be supervised by Prof. Martin Wikelski and ICARUS
manager Uschi Mueller. The researcher can expect an
outstanding scientic environment and excellent sup-
port at this newly re-established department of the Max
Planck Institute of Ornithology in Radolfzell, Baden-
W urttemberg, at Lake Constance. The ICARUS team102 EvolDir January 1, 2013
works at the University of Konstanz, a ,cluster of ex-
cellence' university. The language at the institute is
English.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities,
the Max Planck Society specically encourages peo-
ple with disabilities to apply for the position. To in-
crease the employment of women in areas where they
are under-represented, the Max Planck Society also en-
courages women to apply for this position. Payment
and benets are according to the German TV oD, with
the precise salary level (up to maximum level 14), de-
pending on personal qualications. There will be fur-
ther social benets according to the provision of the
public sector. The positions ideally will begin in Jan-
uary 2013. Screening of applications will begin on De-
cember 15th, 2012. For further details, please con-
tact Uschi Mueller (umueller@orn.mpg.de, phone: +49
7531-884725). Please send your application with a CV,
a1
2-page statement of work interest, and three refer-
ences before 14th January 2013 to:
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Personal-
abteilung Eberhard-Gwinner-Str. D-82319 Seewiesen
or per Email: personal@orn.mpg.de
Uschi M uller Project Coordinator ICARUS
Max-Planck-Institute for Ornithology D-78464 Kon-
stanz Phone: +49 -7531 - 88 4725 Mobile: +49 -
162 - 400 89 56 Fax: +49-7531 - 88 3449 Email:
umueller@orn.mpg.de uschi.mueller@uni-konstanz.de
\Mueller, Uschi" <umueller@orn.mpg.de >
MaxPlanck Jena Bioinformatics
genomics
*A post-doctoral fellowship in plant genomics and
bioinformatics at MPI-CE.*
The Department of Molecular Ecology headed by Pro-
fessor Ian Baldwin at the Max Planck Institute for
Chemical Ecology is oering a postdoctoral position in
plant genomics and bioinformatics.
/Nicotiana attenuata/ (common name Coyote tobacco)
has been developed as an ecological model plant
for plant-herbivore interactions, and its sophisticated
herbivore-induced direct and indirect defenses have
been intensively investigated during the last 20 years
(for more information see: http://ice.mpg.de/ext/-
molecular-ecology.html). To further understand thegenomic basis of plant defense mechanisms and other
adaptations of this remarkable plant to its native habi-
tat (the Great Basin Desert), the Department (in col-
laboration with the Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Genetics in Berlin) is currently sequencing the complete
genome of /N. attenuata/ (estimated size 2.5 Gb), as
well as a near relative (/N. obtusifolia/) and multiple
herbivory-elicited time-course transcriptomes of these
two species, near relatives and allopolyploid relatives.
The main tasks of the candidate will be to contribute
to the analysis of /Nicotiana/ genomes together with
other researchers from the genomics team in the De-
partment and help to build tools that will assist people
in the group to optimally use the genome and transcrip-
tome data.
The candidate should have strong background in bioin-
formatics, computational biology, and computational
analysis of next-generation sequences (NGS). Experi-
ence in database design and construction is a plus.
The candidate should be experienced in at least one
programming languages, such as Perl, Python or
Java/C++. Experience in Linux system administra-
tion and facilities operations is preferred.
The Max Planck Society oers a competitive fellowship,
with a duration of 3 years starting May 2013. The op-
portunity for a German scale salary (TVL-D 13) will
depend on the candidates' prole. The postdoctoral
fellow will be part of the Max Planck Postdoctoral Net-
work, which oers trainings and science communication
opportunities.
Jena is a University town in the center of Germany, with
an international student community and good trans-
port connections to other cities (Berlin, Dresden and
Munich).
The review process will begin on the 10 ^th January
2013 and continue until position is lled. In case of the
(TVL-D 13) position the deadline for application is the
20^th of January.
If you are interested in this position, please send a
CV, a description of research interests and contact in-
formation of 2-3 referees to Prof. Ian Baldwin (bald-
win@ice.mpg.de).
For further information, please contact Dr. Shuqing
Xu (sxu@ice.mpg.de) or Dr. Aura Navarro
(anavarro@ice.mpg.de)
anavarro@ice.mpg.deJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 103
MaxPlanck Leipzig
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position - Max Planck Institute for Evo-
lutionary Anthropology.
We have an opening for a postdoc in the Ge-
netic Diversity and Selection group, in the De-
partment of Evolutionary Genetics at the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
in Leipzig. http://www.eva.mpg.de/genetics/les/-
population genomics.html The main focus of our lab
is to shed light on the role that natural selection has
played in the evolution of humans and other primates.
More specically, we are interested in assessing the in-
uence of natural selection across primate genomes,
in the identication and characterization of selection
targets, and in understanding the phenotypic conse-
quences of selected variants. The specic project is
somewhat exible, but will broadly address the inu-
ence of natural selection in genomes, individuals, pop-
ulations, or species. For example, the project may take
advantage of the high-quality genome-wide datasets of
several populations and species we have access to, both
through external collaborations and in-house data pro-
duction.
We are seeking a creative and highly motivated individ-
ual with prime interest in population genetics/genomics
and evolutionary biology. Candidates should have a
PhD in evolutionary biology, population genetics, bioin-
formatics, computational biology, statistics, or related
disciplines. The ideal candidate will have experience
in at least one of the areas above, and a strong in-
terest in the others. Previous work in population ge-
netics/genomics (theoretical or analytical), experience
with large-scale databases, and strong programming
skills are a plus.
The Department of Evolutionary Genetics is a lively,
stimulating, and highly collaborative place at the
front of primate evolutionary genomics (http://-
www.eva.mpg.de/genetics). The Institute is very inter-
national and English speaking. It is located in Leipzig,
a nice and aordable city of 500,000 habitants that is
the capital and major cultural center of German Sax-
ony. Leipzig is at driving distance of Berlin (2 hours)
and Prague (3 hours).
To apply send, in PDF format, a cover letter, your CV,and the contact information of at least 2 potential ref-
erees to Aida Andr es at aida andres@eva.mpg.de. In-
formal inquiries can be sent to the same address.
Aida Andr es, PhD Group Leader, Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology
Deutscher Platz 6 04103 Leipzig, Germany
Phone: +49 341 3550 507 Fax: +49 341 3550 555
aida.andres@eva.mpg.de
http://www.eva.mpg.de/genetics/les/-
population genomics.html aida andres@eva.mpg.de
MaxPlanck Ploen 3
EvolutionaryGenetics
Three postdoc positions for studying the genomics of
de novo gene evolution
Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen,
Germany
Department of Evolutionary Genetics
Group of Diethard Tautz
http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/15929/-
evolutionarygenetics Funded by an ERC advanced
grant, we will start a large scale project for under-
standing patterns and processes of de novo evolution
of genes.
There is rapidly accumulating evidence that new gene
functions can evolve out of non-coding DNA and that
this contributes to evolutionary innovations (see Tautz
and Domazet-Loso, The evolutionary origin of orphan
genes, Nature Reviews Genetics 12, 692-702). We will
follow three major lines of research to investigate this
in depth:
1. comparative genomics in the house mouse (genus
Mus) species group and outgroups, involving RNASeq
and genome sequencing to systematically identify genes
with a recent history of de novo evolution
2. use an experimental evolution approach in bacte-
ria/phages to assess the frequency of emergence of func-
tional peptides out of random sequences
3. functional analysis of de novo evolved mouse genes
through knockout studies
Qualications required:
position 1: experience in comparative genomics and104 EvolDir January 1, 2013
bioinformatics
position 2: experience in bacterial/phage genetics and
genomics
position 3: experience in mouse genetics
Candidates should have a completed PhD in the respec-
tive elds. Employment is for initially two years, but
can be extended for up to ve years with the option to
develop an own research agenda in the eld. Payment
will be at the TV oD13 scale with full social benets.
Applications should be sent to tautz@evolbio.mpg.de
and include a complete CV, publication list, letter of
motivation and contact information for up to three ref-
erences.
Prof. Dr. Diethard Tautz Max-Planck-Institut
fuer Evolutionsbiologie Abteilung Evolutionsgenetik
August-Thienemannstrasse 2 24306 Ploen (Ger-
many) Tel.: 04522 763 390 Fax: 04522 763 281
tautz@evolbio.mpg.de
tautz@evolbio.mpg.de
Moncton NewBrunswick
FishEvolution
Postdoc in Evolutionary Freshwater Biology (1.5 years-
possible extension conditional to funding) Fisheries and
Oceans Canada, Gulf Fisheries Center, Moncton, New
Brunswick Canada
The Aquatic Animal Health section, molecular biology
group is seeking to recruit a postdoc to strengthen a
starting research team in sh evolutionary Systems bi-
ology. The position is full-time and available immedi-
ately.
Research context
The position is part of a multi-taxonomic evolution-
ary project, with the goal of barcoding and resolving
the taxonomy and evolution of Canadian freshwater
sh. The COI barcoding of freshwater sh will be done
only for groups where ne resolution is needed, and
for species overlapping. A second nuclear gene will be
used to conrm/improve resolution. Additional poten-
tial sh invaders will also be barcoded along with po-
tential non-banned close relatives, as the ultimate goal
is to protect Canadian waters from invasive sh using
applied genomics.
The pdf candidate will integrate an on-going project.Requirements
The successful candidate will have previous research ex-
perience in molecular biology, PCR, phylogenetic and
evolution of sh, be in good command of the English
language (oral and written) and possess excellent com-
munication skills (indicated by the ability to write sci-
entic papers and deliver presentations). Note that
the working environment is bilingual french/english, al-
though candidates with no french are welcomed.
Additional requirements are: - A PhD in Computer
Science, Biology or Physics, with relevant experience
in the area of complex adaptive systems, evolutionary
computation or theoretical population genetics.
- A strong interest in evolutionary theory and its bio-
logical applications.
Conditions of employment
The Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada,
Moncton, New Brunswick, oers a position for 1.5 yrs.
The job is full-time (37.5 hours per week) with an an-
nual salary of 47 000$ (can)
How to apply
Applications, including a letter of motivation, a cur-
riculum vitae, a list of publications, and the contact
information of two academic referees, must be submit-
ted to the contact below. The position is open as long
as this message is posted.
For further information, please consult: http://-
www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/PD-NP/-
Laboratories-Laboratoires/FO-PO eng.asp http://-
www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/PD-NP/-
Laboratories-Laboratoires/index eng.asp http://grdi-
irdg.collaboration.gc.ca/eng/aboutrnd.html Informal
enquiries can be made by email to nellie.gagne@dfo-
mpo.gc.ca
Nellie Gagn e Fisheries and Oceans Canada/P^ eches
et Oc eans Canada Molecular biology / Biologie
Mol eculaire Aquatic animal health/ Sant e des animaux
aquatiques 343 Universit e, Moncton N.B. E1C 9B6 (
(506) 851-7478 fax (506) 851-2079
\Gagne, Nellie" <Nellie.Gagne@dfo-mpo.gc.ca >
Montpellier PlantAdaptation
POSTDOCTORAL position \genomic study of plant
Adaptation". Montpellier, France.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 105
A postdoctoral position is available to participate in an
Agropolis Fondation funded project (ARCAD: Agropo-
lis resource center for crop conservation and adap-
tation www.arcad-project.org <http://www.arcad-
project.org >), focusing on the study of plant adap-
tation to climate variation. The post-doc will be in
charge of statistical analysis of available large of rice
and pearl millet datasets. The primary analysis will
focus on genome selection scan study (De Mita et al.
in press). On a set of the accessions phenotypic data
are available allowing to couple selection analysis and
association mapping studies.
The team oers a diverse and interactive environ-
ment for research in plantevolutionary biology. We
share close ties with other evolutionary biology and
plant science labs in Montpellier, and we benet from
shared facilities, such as the bioinformatics core re-
search facility. Montpellier is a lively city on the
French Mediterranean coast (http://us.montpellier.fr/-
1117-discovering-montpellier.htm).
To apply for this position, please send a brief letter
of interest (1-2 paragraphs), a CV, and the names
and contact information for two references to Yves
Vigouroux (yves.vigouroux[at]ird.fr) and Joelle Ronfort
(joelle.ronfort[at]supagro.inra.fr). The position is avail-
able for 10 months. Opportunity to build up Marie
Curie Fellowship or to pursuit on another funded post-
doctoral position on similar project will depend on re-
search progress. A Review of applications will begin
on mid January, and will continue until the position is
lled.
The post-doctoral fellowship is funded by Agropolis
Foundation (*http://www.agropolis-fondation.fr/*).
Reference:
De Mita S, Thuillet AC, Gay L, Ahmadi N, Manel S
et al. *Detecting selection along environmental gradi-
ents: analysis of eight methods and their eectiveness
for outbreeding and selng populations*. /Mol Ecol./in
press.
Team web site :
Y Vigouroux
https://sites.google.com/site/-
plantbiodiversityadaptation/ J Ronfort
http://umr-agap.cirad.fr/en/scientic-teams/-
diversity-and-adaptation-of-grapevine-and-
mediterranean-species/objectives Yves Vigouroux
Responsable de l'Equipe Anthropisation et Dynamique
de la Diversit e G en etique -DYNADIV IRD - Institut
de Recherche pour le D eveloppement 911 avenue
AGROPOLIS BP 64501, 34394 Montpellier cedex 5France Tel : 33 (0)4 67 41 62 45 ; Fax : 33 (0)4 67 41
62 22 Email : yves.vigouroux@ird.fr
Web : https://sites.google.com/site/-
plantbiodiversityadaptation/ \yves.vigouroux@ird.fr"
<yves.vigouroux@ird.fr >
NHMLondon BiodiversityGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Assistant Biodiversity Genomics
A postdoctoral position is available to conduct re-
search and to co-ordinate research activities under the
Biodiversity Initiative of the Natural History Museum
(www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/biodiversity/).
The Biodiversity Initiative will develop new meth-
ods for studying species-rich ecosystems using genomic
methods. The Initiative will develop a standardised
sampling program in several tropical forests to study
species turnover over spatial distance and along dis-
turbance gradients. High-throughput sequencing will
be used to assess simultaneously species diversity and
genetic diversity from pools of specimens using PCR-
free protocols. Pilot experiments will be carried out
on samples from several forests in the UK. The study
focuses on insects, as a model of a highly diverse, but
taxonomically insuciently known group.
The job holder will be expected to work closely with a
research team of molecular taxonomists, ecologists and
collection managers to conduct integrated biodiversity
studies that include all steps from eld collections to
the establishment of standard and frozen collections,
and from morphological and molecular taxonomy to ge-
nomics and statistical biodiversity analysis. The Initia-
tive will also involve 'citizen scientist' volunteers who
conduct eld sampling and specimen sorting. This is
an exciting opportunity to develop novel approaches to
museum-based biodiversity research.
We are seeking an individual with expertise in compar-
ative genomics and bioinformatics, who is familiar with
standard software and scripting used in the analysis of
next-generation sequencing data. Good understanding
of molecular phylogenetics, ecological statistics and/or
eld biology (entomology) is an advantage. Good com-
munication skills and exibility to address diverse re-
search needs of the project are also required.
The post is available for 3 years. To ap-
ply, please follow the link to an application
form at www.nhm.ac.uk/about-us/jobs-volunteering-106 EvolDir January 1, 2013
internships/index.html .For informal inquiries, contact
Dr Alfried P. Vogler, Professor of Molecular Systemat-
ics, Natural History Museum, London SW7 5BD, UK,
email: apv@nhm.ac.uk. Closing date for applications
is January 7th, 2013.
A.Vogler@nhm.ac.uk
Smithsonian PlantEvolution
2013 Smithsonian Institution Research Fellowships
Research fellowships in Botany are available through
the Smithsonian Institution Fellowship Program, which
provides funding for graduate students, postdoc-
toral scholars, and senior investigators to con-
duct research in association with Smithsonian scien-
tists. Candidates are especially encouraged to ap-
ply for the new multi-year Peter Buck Fellowships
(http://www.si.edu/ofg/fell.htm - fnmnh <http://-
www.si.edu/ofg/fell.htm#fnmnh >). Fellows based at
the National Museum of Natural History have access to
a research sta of more than 100 scholars, world-class
collections, and modern core facilities including molec-
ular andstable isotope laboratories and SEM. All appli-
cants should contact potential sta advisors to deter-
mine the feasibility of the proposed research and tenure
dates, as well as the availability of relevant collections
and other resources. Potential sta advisors and infor-
mation about their work is available at the departmen-
tal web site (http://botany.si.edu/).
Proposal deadline is January 15, 2013. Fellowship du-
rations range from three months to three years de-
pending on fellowship category. The stipend for Pre-
doctoral Fellows is $30,000 per year (twelve months)
and for Postdoctoral and Senior Fellows is $45,000
per year (twelvemonths). A maximum research al-
lowance of $4,000 per year is available. Ten-week
Graduate Student Fellowships are also available with
a stipend of $6,500. Fellowships are open to citizens
of any country. For more information and to apply
online, visit the Program website (http://www.si.edu/-
ofg/Applications/SIFELL/SIFELLapp.htm).
Elizabeth Anne Zimmer, Ph.D. Principal Investiga-
tor/Research Biologist Department of Botany Labora-
tories of Analytical Biology National Museum of Nat-
ural History, Smithsonian Institution Museum Sup-
port Center, MRC 534 4210 Silver Hill Rd. Suit-
land, MD 20746 Phone: 301-238-1118 FAX: 301-238-
3059 Cell: 703-863-9806 email: zimmerl@si.edu URL:http://botany.si.edu/sta/index.cfm \Zimmer, Eliza-
beth (Liz)" <ZIMMERL@si.edu >
StLouisU EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE IN
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
A postdoctoral position is available in the Casola Lab
at Saint Louis University. Current research interests
in the lab include gene duplication and gene dele-
tion in eukaryotes, comparative and population ge-
nomics of allelic and interlocus gene conversion, and
the origin of genomic novelties from transposable el-
ements. The postdoc will have exibility to work
on projects in that are of interest and will be ex-
pected to present and publish results. More details
on active projects in the lab are available online at
sites.google.com/a/slu.edu/ccasola.
Candidates must hold a Ph.D. in computational bi-
ology, evolutionary genetics/genomics, molecular evo-
lution or a related eld. Experience in comparative
genome-wide analyses, next-gen sequencing data, and
bioinformatic programming are preferred. Program-
ming skills in either perl, python, R or other languages
suitable for bioinformatic analyses are required. This
is a one-year position renewable depending on perfor-
mance and external funding. A starting salary will
be commensurate with experience and benets are in-
cluded. The position is open immediately and the start
date is negotiable.
All applications must be made online at http://-
jobs.slu.edu. Applicants should submit a cover let-
ter, curriculum vitae, and contact information for three
references (name, address, phone number and email).
Only electronic applications will be considered. Please
send any questions about the position, expectation or
requirements to Claudio Casola (ccasola@slu.edu).
Saint Louis University is an armative action, equal
opportunity employer and encourages applications from
women and minorities.
{ Claudio Casola, Ph.D.^ aSt. Louis University As-
sistant Professor Department of Biology Macelwane
Hall, Room 208 Phone: (314) 977-3909 Fax: (314)
977-3658 ccasola@slu.edu https://sites.google.com/a/-
slu.edu/ccasola/ ccasola@slu.eduJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 107
TubingenU Paeleogenetics
The Paeleogenetics group at the Faculty of Mathe-
matics and Natural Sciences, T ubingen University, is
searching for
A research fellow (postdoc, German funding system
TVL-E13)
for a period of 2 years, with potential extension up to
5 years starting in
January 2013 or later.
POSITION SUMMARY
We are looking for a Postdoctoral Research Fellow with
a strong bioinformatics background to study the evolu-
tion and genetic reconstruction of pathogen and human
DNA from an archaeological context using next gener-
ation sequencing data.
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
The position is funded by the European Research Coun-
cil (ERC) as part of a 5 year starting grant with the
title \Ancient Pathogen Genomics of re-emerging infec-
tious disease" (APGREID). The aim of the project is
to study ancient pathogen genomes from historical pan-
demics as well as host pathogen interactions throughout
time. The primary focus will be the reconstruction of
immunity related genes, from human host populations
throughout major pandemics in order to get direct in-
sights into host pathogen interactions over time. The
research will be focused on common human associated
pathogens of viral and bacterial origin and applying
phylogenetic and comparative analyses to ancient as
well as modern pathogen genomes. The position may
involve eldtrips in order to identify and sample skele-
tal remains from historical contexts. The project will
be directly supervised by the PI. The working climate
in the paleogenetics group is open with low hierarchical
structures and involves brainstorming and interactions
with all the team members during weekly meetings and
informal discussions.
Supervisory Responsibilities: The research fellow may
be expected to co-supervise a PhD student and poten-
tially other junior sta to assist with the project.
QUALIFICATIONS
A completed Ph.D. in Bioinformatics, Microbiology,
Evolutionary Biology, Population genetics, or a relatedeld; post-doctoral research experience is a plus.
SKILLS
A strong sense of team spirit and diplomacy is a re-
quirement. The candidate should have a strong back-
ground in population genetics, bacterial or viral genet-
ics and/or pathogen evolution. Procient background
in bioinformatics including experience with next gener-
ation sequencing data analysis is a must (e.g. BWA,
samtools, GATK). Software skills should include, but
not be limited to, most of the following: prociency
in general statistical analysis such as R (model testing,
etc.); phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis for build-
ing phylogenetic trees and other programs for align-
ment and building likelihood and Bayesian trees (esp.
BEAST). Excellent written and verbal communication
skills in English and a proven track record in writing
and publishing manuscripts are required.
START DATE:
There is a proposed start date of January 1st, 2013.
This starts as a two-year position, however funding is
available for 5 years in total. Salary is based on German
public funding system(TVL-E13).
How to Apply:
In order to be considered all eligible candidates must
email the following
three items: (a) one page cover letter, (b) CV, and (c)
three references
to Johannes.krause@uni-tuebingen.de.
T ubingen University is an equal opportunity employer.
Women and members of minority groups including dis-
abled persons are strongly encouraged to apply.
Thank you,
Johannes Krause
Dr. rer. nat. Professor for Paleogenetics Institute of
Archaeological Sciences(INA) Faculty of Mathematics
and Natural Sciences
Eberhard-Karls University Tuebingen Ruemelinstr. 23
72070 Tuebingen Tel: +49 (0) 7071 29 74 089
johannes <krause@eva.mpg.de >
UBrussels
DrosophilaSocialNetworks108 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Postdoctoral position opportunity on Animal Be-
haviour and Social Networks
Project: DrosoNet (on the use of social network to un-
derstand the factors aecting spread andstability of so-
cial transmission in Drosophila)
https://docs.google.com/-
viewer?a=v&pid=sites&srcid=-
ZGVmYXVsdGRvbWFpbnxjZWRyaWNzdWV1cmFuaW1hbGJlaGF2aW91cnxneDo3NmM1NGY1ODAzN2MzOGM5
C edric Sueur Ma^ tre de Conf erences, Associate Pro-
fessor
cedric.sueur@iphc.cnrs.fr / csueur@ulb.ac.be phone:
+33(0)388107453 fax: +33(0)388107456 https://-
sites.google.com/site/cedricsueuranimalbehaviour/
Ethologie Evolutive DEPE, IPHC, UDS-CNRS
UMR7178 23, rue Becquerel f-67087 Strasbourg Cedex
FRANCE
Unit of Social Ecology CP231, free university of Brus-
sels Campus Plaine, Bd du triomphe 1050 Brussels
BELGIUM
csueur@iphc.cnrs.fr
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
MalariaPopGen
Postdoctoral Fellow in Statistical Population Genetics
of Malaria at U.C. San Francisco, San Francisco, CA,
USA
A postdoctoral position is available starting July, 2013
in the laboratory of Bryan Greenhouse in the Divi-
sion of Infectious Diseases at U.C. San Francisco. The
current position will focus on development and appli-
cation of statistical models incorporating parasite ge-
netics and epidemiologic data to characterize transmis-
sion and evolution of malaria parasites. The success-
ful candidate will have the opportunity to work closely
with a diverse team of scientists at UCSF and inter-
national collaborators on projects spanning work in
malaria elimination to regions with the highest burden
of malaria in the world. The fellow will be encouraged
to develop an independent line of work under the co-
mentorship of Bryan Greenhouse and Rasmus Nielsen
(U.C. Berkeley), including presentation and publication
of ndings. Our work is directly connected to on-the-
ground malaria control and elimination eorts, and the
scientic output from this position is expected to di-
rectly aect interventions in the eld in addition to
leading to academic publications. Competitive salaryincluding full benets will be provided commensurate
with experience and qualications.
Essential Skills
* PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. population genetics,
statistics, computational biology)
* Excellent background in population genetics
* Strong statistical and computational skills
* Demonstrated ability to produce independent, cre-
ative work
* Ability to work well as member of a team
* Strong written and oral communication skills
Ideal Skills
* Experience with analysis of pathogen transmission
trees / phylogeographic data
* Familiarity with laboratory genetic/genomic assays
and data, including QC
* Experience with geospatial data / visualization
To Apply: Please send a detailed CV including publica-
tions, brief statement of research/career interests, and
contact information for 3 references to Bryan Green-
house, MD, MA at bryan.greenhouse@ucsf.edu
\Greenhouse, Bryan" <bgreenhouse@medsfgh.ucsf.edu >
UCollegeCork Ireland
FishQuantGenetics
Research Fellow in Quantitative Genetics & Evolution-
ary Biology Job Posted: 18 Dec 2012 Closing Date for
Applications: 21 Jan 2013 School: School of Biologi-
cal, Earth & Environmental Sciences, University Col-
lege Cork, Ireland. Principal Investigators: Dr Philip
McGinnity & Prof. Tom Cross Contract Type: Fixed
Term Whole-Time Job Type: Research Salary: 51,716
- 54,820
Position Summary The Beaufort Marine Research
Awards, launched in 2007, has provided 20 million to
establish world class marine research groups in a num-
ber of priority areas aimed at addressing the objectives
of Sea Change: A Marine Knowledge, Research and In-
novation Strategy for Ireland 2007-2013. The awards
target research leaders of international standing and
mobile early stage researchers from Ireland and abroad.
One of the groups established under this initiative isJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 109
the Beaufort Fish Population Genetics Research Cen-
tre. This new centre of excellence integrates researchers
and research capacity from University College Cork,
Queen's University Belfast and the Marine Institute,
Ireland.
The School of Biological, Earth & Environmental Sci-
ences, University College Cork (UCC), Ireland, is seek-
ing to employ under the Beaufort Marine Science
Scheme, a Research Fellow in the area of Quantitative
Genetics and Evolutionary Biology. This position will
run from appointment to the end of 2015. The Research
Fellow will participate in the practical implementation
of an all-Ireland programme in Fish Genetics, aiming
to generate high level research activity and to produce
publications in the area of population and evolutionary
genetics.
Specically, and in addition to the application of molec-
ular techniques to support its population genetics pro-
gramme (e.g. microsatellites, sequencing of both nu-
clear and mtDNA genes, SNPs and Next Generation
Sequencing) the Beaufort team has been conducting a
series of common garden and reciprocal transfer experi-
ments in addition to developing multigenerational pedi-
grees on wild sh populations. Some of these popula-
tions have been subject to detailed monitoring for many
decades and have excellent potential to provide insights
into the processes of local adaptation, natural selection,
phenotypic plasticity, inbreeding depression and mat-
ing strategies, and to gain a improved understanding
of such applied topics as the evolutionary consequences
of climate variability, sheries, introgression with cap-
tive bred conspecics, ecosystem changes due to inva-
sive species and disease. The project has and continues
to build excellent datasets for Atlantic salmon, brown
trout, European lobster, Atlantic cod and stickleback.
We are now seeking a quantitative geneti-
cist/evolutionary biologist who can provide a link
between the molecular, biological, demographic and
quantitative genetic aspects of the various projects
within the Beaufort programme and exploit the re-
search opportunities provided by these unique datasets.
There should also be the opportunity to undertake
some genomic analysis based upon NGS data. Suitable
candidates will have a strong background in evolu-
tionary or conservation genetics (in any species) and
have a good knowledge of modern quantitative genetic
methodologies.
The successful candidate will be facilitated at the Ma-
rine Institute's research centre at Newport, Co. Mayo,
Ireland, with scope to spend periods of time at Univer-
sity College Cork and Queens University Belfast.
Criteria - A PhD qualication in quantitative genet-ics, evolutionary biology, conservation genetics, molec-
ular ecology or a related topic and signicant relevant
research experience; - The capacity to work indepen-
dently on research projects; - The ability to assess and
evaluate concepts/theories in order to develop original
solutions and particular knowledge of, and expertise in
research methodologies; - Track record of high qual-
ity peer reviewed publications; - Experience with pedi-
gree analysis and kinship reconstruction using molecu-
lar data; - Experience with a range of quantitative tech-
niques and statistical modelling for example restricted
maximum likelihood (REML) or Bayesian mixed mod-
els, in particular 'animal models' for the analysis of
pedigree data; - Experience in post graduate and Post-
Doctoral supervision; - Strong project management ex-
perience; - Ability to provide leadership to small re-
search teams; - Ability to secure independent external
research funding; - Ability to contribute to broader or-
ganisational and management processes; - Knowledge
transfer and commercialisation experience is highly de-
sirable.
For more detailed outline of the Research Fellow re-
sponsibilities and career development at University
College Cork please see the UCC Job Vacancy web-
site http://www.ucc.ie/en/hr/vacancies/research/full-
details-186532-en.html For informal enquiries on the
post candidates should contact: Dr Philip McGinnity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida SeasonalAdaptation
Postdoc: U. Florida - mechanisms of seasonal adapta-
tion and life history evolution.
A postdoctoral position in genomics and physiology of
seasonal adaptation, life history evolution, and specia-
tion is available in Dan Hahns lab at the University of
Florida.
Our work takes a vertically integrated approach to un-
derstanding how rapid adaptation of insect seasonal life
history timing can lead to speciation and radiation onto
new host plants in the apple maggot sympatric specia-
tion system. Specically, a new host race of Rhagoletis
pomonella formed when this y radiated from its native110 EvolDir January 1, 2013
host plant, hawthorns, onto domesticated apples. Be-
cause apples ower and fruit earlier in the summer than
hawthorns and adult ies are short lived the two host
races have become isolated in time. In this system tem-
poral isolation of the two host races is driven by shifts in
the timing of pupal diapause/dormancy wherein the ap-
ple host race enters diapause earlier than the hawthorn
host race and also exits diapause earlier the next year
to synchronize themselves with their novel host fruit.
Thus, this system is not only a model for speciation
and host plant adaptation, but also for adaptation to
shifts in seasonal timing like those expected to occur
with shifts in seasonality due to anthropogenic climate
change.
Some representative publications include:
Ragland, G.J., S.B. Sim, S. Goudarzi, J.L. Feder, and
D.A. Hahn. 2012. Environmental interactions during
host race formation: host fruit environment moderates
a seasonal shift in phenology in host races of Rhagoletis
pomonella. Functional Ecology. 26:921-931.
Ragland, G.J., S.P. Egan, J.L. Feder, S.H. Berlocher,
and D.A. Hahn. 2011.Developmental trajectories of
gene expression reveal candidates for diapause termi-
nation, in the apple maggot y, Rhagoletis pomonella.
Journal of Experimental Biology. 214:3948-3959.
Michel, A.P., S. Sim, T. Powell, M.S. Taylor, P. Nosil,
and J.L. Feder. 2010. Widespread genomic divergence
during sympatric speciation. PNAS. 107:9724-9729.
Filchak, K.E., Roethele, J.B. & Feder, J.L. 2000. Nat-
ural selection and sympatric divergence in the apple
maggot Rhagoletis pomonella. Nature. 407:739V742.
Feder, J.L. and K.E. Filchak. 1999. Its about time: the
evidence for host plant-mediated selection in the apple
maggot y, Rhagoletis pomonella, and its implications
for tness trade-os in phytophagous insects. Ento-
mologia Experimentalis et Applicata. 91: 211V225
This project is a collaborative eort with Greg Ragland,
Scott Egan, and Je Feder at the University of Notre
Dame and the successful applicant will be part of a
larger team at both U. Florida and Notre Dame. The
postdoc will be expected to lead a group of undergrad-
uate and graduate students in eld collecting ies from
both host plants, rearing them in the lab under dierent
thermal regimes mimicking seasonal shifts, phenotyping
dormancy using metabolic rates, and collecting staged
tissue samples for RNA-seq, proteomics, and whole-
genome associations. The postdoc will be expected to
process, analyze, and integrate high-throughput data
from next-generation sequencing and mass spectrom-
etry and apply the results to a physiologically in-
formed framework for the evolution of life history tim-ing. Experience with high-dimensionality data, ge-
nomics, molecular evolution, and programming in R
and Perl/Python are all a plus.
The initial appointment will be for 2 years starting in
summer 2013, with extension for up to 4 years based
on performance. The University of Florida located in
Gainesville oers a rich scientic community for evo-
lution, ecology, physiology/cell biology, and genomics
that spans many departments including Entomology
and Nematology (the academic home for this appoint-
ment), Biology, Wildlife, Forestry, the Genomics In-
stitute, the US Department of Agriculture, and the
College of Medicine. There will be substantial op-
portunities for interdisciplinary training across these
units, including training in genomics and informatics,
as well as additional training opportunities in teach-
ing/instruction and scientic outreach to the public.
Gainesville is a great college town in north Florida sur-
rounded by forests, springs & rivers, and is also an easy
drive from the beach on either coast and larger cities
like Jacksonville, Orlando, and Tampa.
For more information, contact Dan Hahn (da-
hahn@u.edu). To apply, send a single PDF document
including your CV, a brief statement of previous re-
search, and contact information for three references to
Dan Hahn (dahahn@u.edu) by February 15th. Review
of applications will begin in late February and continue
until the position is lled, ideally with a summer 2013
start date. Both Dan and Greg will be at the SICB
meetings in San Francisco January 3-9 if you would
like more information in person.
Daniel A. Hahn Associate Professor Department of En-
tomology and Nematology University of Florida P.O.
Box 110620 Gainesville, FL 32611-0620
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGroningen
EvolutionarySystemsBiology
Postdoc in Evolutionary Systems Biology (3 years) Uni-
versity of Groningen, the Netherlands
The Theoretical Biology group at the University of
Groningen is seeking to recruit a postdoc to strengthenJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 111
a starting research team in Evolutionary Systems bi-
ology. The position is full-time and available immedi-
ately.
Research environment
The position is part of the project Systems biology
meets evolutionary theory: modeling the genetics and
adaptation of complex traits', funded by the Nether-
lands Organization for Scientic Research (NWO) and
the European Research Council (ERC). Key objectives
of this project are to understand how biomolecular in-
teraction networks have been shaped by evolution, and
how the structure of such networks inuences pheno-
typic adaptation. To these ends, the research team
will integrate evolutionary techniques and insights with
systems-biology models, and develop innovative com-
putational approaches for analyzing the structure and
function of complex biomolecular networks. The role of
the postdoc will be to develop methods for model re-
duction and biological network analysis based on ideas
from multi-locus population genetics, and techniques
for analyzing adaptive walks on complex tness land-
scapes.
The research team will be embedded in the Theoretical
Biology group at the Centre for Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Studies (CEES), which comprises several other
strong, internationally recognized research groups in
the eld of evolutionary biology. Our group also inter-
acts closely with the molecular geneticists and systems
biologists at the Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute. The University of Groningen
enjoys an international reputation as a dynamic and in-
novative centre of higher education and belongs to the
best research universities in Europe. The university is
ranked 24th (3rd among the European universities) on
this year's 'Best Places to Work in Academia' ranking
published by The Scientist.
Requirements
The successful candidate will have previous research ex-
perience in theoretical modeling, be in good command
of the English language (oral and written) and pos-
sess excellent communication skills (indicated by the
ability to write scientic papers and deliver presenta-
tions). Evolutionary systems biology is an emerging in-
terdisciplinary research eld. Suitable candidates can
be either individuals with a background in the com-
putational/molecular (life- )sciences, who are genuinely
interested in evolutionary questions, or evolutionary bi-
ologists with a genuine interest in biomolecular mecha-
nisms. Additional requirements are: - A PhD in Com-
puter Science, Biology or Physics, with relevant expe-
rience in the area of complex adaptive systems, evolu-
tionary computation or theoretical population genetics.- Excellent mathematical modeling and computer pro-
gramming skills. - An active and supportive approach
to inter-disciplinary research that will help to foster col-
laborations and interactions with other group members.
- A strong interest in evolutionary theory and its bio-
logical applications.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers an appointment for
one year with the option of a two-year extension, condi-
tional on satisfactory performance. The job is full-time
(38 hours per week) with a starting salary between 2861
and 3195 (salary scale 10.4 - 10.7) gross per month, de-
pending on qualications and work experience.
How to apply
Applications, including a letter of motivation, a curricu-
lum vitae, a list of publications, and the contact infor-
mation of three academic referees, must be submitted
online through the website: http://www.rug.nl/about-
us/work-with-us/job-opportunities/all-job-vacancies
The vacancy number for this position is 212276. The
position will remain open until lled. All applica-
tions received by January 7, 2013 will be given full
consideration.
For further information, please consult:
http://www.rug.nl http://www.rug.nl/research/cees/
http://www.rug.nl/research/theoretical-biology/
http://www.rug.nl/research/theoretical-biology/-
people/vdoorn Informal enquiries can be made to
Dr. Sander van Doorn (e-mail: g.s.van.doorn@rug.nl;
phone: +31-50-3638097)
G. Sander van Doorn University of Groningen Centre
for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies - Theoretical
Biology Nijenborgh 7 9747 AG Groningen The Nether-
lands
Phone: +31-50-3638097 Fax: +31-50-3635205 http:/-
/www.rug.nl/research/theoretical-biology/people/-
vdoorn g.s.van.doorn@rug.nl
UHelsinki
AdaptingToEutrophication
A postdoctoral fellowship on adaptation to eutrophica-
tion at University of Helsinki
A postdoctoral position for up to 3 years is available
for work on the consequences of human-induced eu-112 EvolDir January 1, 2013
trophication for the littoral community of the North-
ern Baltic Sea. The work will focus on eco-evolutionary
dynamics, the relative importance of phenotypic plas-
ticity and genetic changes in surviving rapid changes,
and the possibility of evolutionary changes maintain-
ing stable littoral communities (evolutionary rescue).
The research can be adjusted to the specic interests of
the candidate. I'm seeking an energetic postdoc with
a strong background in evolutionary biology or com-
munity ecology with an interest in working at the in-
terfaces of these disciplines. For more information on
the research, check the website www.mv.helsinki./-
home/ucandoli/ or contact me directly by email: ul-
rika.candolin@helsinki., or phone: +358-9-19157800
If interested, please send an email to Ulrika Candolin
(ulrika.candolin@helsinki.) with a CV, statement of
research interests, and the names, phone numbers, and
email addresses of three references.
The appointed candidate can start immediately, but
the starting date is negotiable. I will begin reviewing
applications 12 December 2012 and will continue to do
so until the position is lled.
Ulrika Candolin Dept of Biosciences University of
Helsinki PO Box 65 FI-00014 Helsinki
Phone: +358-(0)9-191 57800 Fax: +358-(0)9-
191 57694 Mobile: +358-(0)50-576 4055 Email:
ulrika.candolin@helsinki. http://www.mv.helsinki./-
home/ucandoli ulrika.candolin@helsinki.
UHelsinki ButteryGenomics
POST DOCTORAL/RESEARCHER POSITION IN
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS OF THE GLANVILLE
FRITILLARY BUTTERFLY
The Metapopulation Research Group at the Univer-
sity of Helsinki invites applications from experienced
post docs/young researchers to join a large and highly
international research group (www.helsinki./science/-
metapop). We seek candidates with experience in large-
scale genotyping and NGS, ideally combined with some
background in ecology or evolutionary biology. The
post doc/researcher will lead a major project in large-
scale genotyping of uniquely comprehensive samples
from the well-studied metapopulation of the Glanville
fritillary for association and linkage analyses and for
constructing a pedigree for the natural metapopula-
tion. She/he will closely interact with ecologists, evo-lutionary biologists, molecular biologists and bioinfor-
maticians. The research group has strong expertise in
statistical and mathematical modelling. Given the past
extensive ecological knowledge for the buttery and the
current genomic resources, there is an opportunity for
an excellent young researcher to make rapid progress.
The appointment will be for a xed term for 2 years
with a possibility for a renewal for 2 years.
The Glanville fritillary buttery (Melitaea cinxia)
in Finland is a widely recognized model system in
metapopulation and evolutionary biology. A long-term
eld study has been running in a network of 4,000 habi-
tat fragments since 1991. In the past 5 years, we have
developed genomic tools for the species (full genome to
be published soon, genetic linkage map available) and
sampled systematically the entire metapopulation.
Further information may be obtained from Prof.
Ilkka Hanski (ilkka.hanski@helsinki.). Applications
should be submitted as a single PDF le to biotiede-
mrg@helsinki.. Review of applications will begin on
January 7 and continue until the position is lled. Ap-
plication must include full CV, names and addresses of
three referees, and a 2 page summary of research inter-
ests.
Ilkka Hanski <ilkka.hanski@helsinki. >
UIllinois
MaizePhysiologicalGenomics
Postdoctoral positions: Physiological Genomics of Ox-
idative Stress in Maize The University of Illinois seeks
three creative and energetic postdoctoral associates
with strong backgrounds in plant physiology, quanti-
tative genetics, or genomics to form a multidisciplinary
team to discover the genetic basis of oxidative stress
tolerance in maize. Experience with eld experimenta-
tion, phenomics/remote sensing, statistical analysis of
quantitative traits, functional genomics and/or C4 pho-
tosynthesis are all desirable. The positions will play key
roles within a US$5.7 million, 5-year project funded by
the NSF Plant Genome program titled, \MCA-PGR:
Genetic and genomic approaches to understand and im-
prove maize responses to ozone". The successful appli-
cants will be expected to actively interact with a team
of experimentalists and statisticians integrating data
from the genomic, biochemical and physiological scales,
with ample opportunity for interdisciplinary training.
The start date is as early as January 2013, but exible.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 113
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is an
equal opportunity employer and oers highly compet-
itive salary and excellent health care benets. Ques-
tions about these positions or applications including a
letter of application, CV and the names of three ref-
erees can be addressed by email to Melinda Laborg
(laborg@uiuc.edu). Applications will be reviewed start-
ing December 30, 2012.
pjb34@illinois.edu
ULeuven 2
VertebrateEvolutionaryBiol
Postdoc position I: Dynamics of hybridisation in Euro-
pean sea bass
We are looking to recruit a postdoctoral fellow who
is interested in empirical and experimental vertebrate
evolutionary biology.
The core of our research program, funded through a
European FP7-KBBE research grant (Aquatrace), is
an extensive survey on introgression in natural popula-
tions, articial selection experiments, and genome-wide
characterization. These resources are being developed
to study patterns of adaptation in natural populations
and human-induced evolution through escapees from
aquaculture. Fellows with a background and interest in
evolution in high gene ow environments and genomics
are encouraged to apply. Applicants are required to
have a PhD in biological sciences or related elds.
The postdoc will work collaboratively with the senior
scientist, another postdoc and graduate students, and
associated teams at the University of Padua, Stirling
and Santiago de Compostella on the population ge-
nomics of European sea bass. The successful candi-
date will be involved with data collection, methodol-
ogy, data analysis and writing. The project requires
skills in bioinformatics (scripting) and biostatistics. In
addition to the primary research responsibilities, duties
will include assisting and mentoring graduate students,
preparation of manuscripts for publication, and the or-
ganization and management of large datasets.
Candidates are expected to apply for eligible exter-
nal grants to support their income and research (e.g.
Research Foundation-Flanders, KU Leuven, EU Marie-
Curie). The expected start is Summer 2013.
Interested candidates should email Prof. Filip Vol-
ckaert (lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be) with a motiva-tion letter, a commented short list of ve representative
papers and an extended CV (with publications) by 31
January 2013.
More information: Prof. Filip Volckaert (Email:
lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be)
Funding opportunities: Research Foundation-Flanders
(www.fwo.be), KU Leuven, EU Marie-Curie
Postdoc position II: Human-induced evolution in stick-
leback
We are looking to recruit a postdoctoral fellow who
is interested in empirical and experimental vertebrate
evolutionary biology.
The core of our research program, funded through two
excellence grants, is an extensive survey on adapta-
tion in natural populations, articial selection exper-
iments, and genome-wide characterization. These re-
sources are being developed to study human-induced
evolution through urbanization, more specically ambi-
ent mixtures of pollutants. Fellows with a background
and interest in experimental evolutionary biology, eco-
evo and/or transcriptomics are encouraged to apply.
Applicants are required to have a PhD in biological sci-
ences or related elds.
The postdoc will work collaboratively with the senior
scientist, another postdoc and graduate students, and
an associated team at the University of Antwerp on
transcriptomic approaches to adaptation in the three-
spined stickleback. The successful candidate will be
involved with experimental breeding, data collection,
methodology, data analysis and writing. The project
requires skills in bioinformatics and biostatistics. In
addition to the primary research responsibilities, duties
will include assisting and mentoring graduate students,
preparation of manuscripts for publication, and the or-
ganization and management of large datasets.
Strong candidates are expected to apply for eligible
external grants to support their income and research
(e.g. Research Foundation-Flanders, KU Leuven, EU
Marie-Curie). Candidates from South America, South-
Africa, Ukraine and Russia may apply for a BEL-
SPO postdoctoral fellowship (http://www.belspo.be/-
belspo/organisation/call postdoc en.stm). The ex-
pected start is Summer 2013.
Interested candidates should email Prof. Filip Vol-
ckaert (lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be) with a motiva-
tion letter, a commented short list of ve representative
papers and an extended CV (with publications) by 21
January 2013.
lip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be114 EvolDir January 1, 2013
UMassachusetts Lowell
EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher Position in Molecular Evolu-
tion, Genomics and Bioinformatics Available at the
University of Massachusetts Lowell
A full-time postdoctoral researcher position is available
to work in the laboratory of Jessica Garb in the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences at the University of Mas-
sachusetts Lowell. The appointment is funded through
a National Institutes of Health grant aimed at using
transcriptomic data to characterize the molecular di-
versity of spider venoms and to understand the evo-
lutionary genomics of venom toxicity. The position is
available immediately, or the start date can be exible
to accommodate the best-suited candidate. The initial
position is for one year, with a second year of employ-
ment conditional on performance in the rst year. This
position is contingent upon continued funding.
Work for this position will largely involve analyzing
large cDNA sequence datasets generated with Illumina
RNA-Seq methods. The candidate will ideally have ex-
perience using bioinformatics tools to manipulate large
sequence datasets. The work will identify tissue-specic
patterns of gene expression and include a variety of
molecular evolutionary analyses. The candidate will
also have the opportunity to get involved in several
other on-going projects in the laboratory related to the
evolutionary genomics of spider venoms and/or silks.
Major responsibilities for this position include data
collection, analysis and writing of manuscripts, and
progress in these areas will determine continuation of
the appointment. The position will also involve some
student mentoring, organization of laboratory activities
related to the project, and weekly meetings with the
PI and project collaborators. For further information
about the lab, and related publications, please visit this
site: http://faculty.uml.edu/jgarb/ Minimum Qual-
ications (Required): - Ph.D. in Biological Sciences,
Computer Science or related eld (must have Ph.D. by
the time of appointment) - Fluent in English - Demon-
strated experience writing scientic manuscripts - Abil-
ity to think and work independently, and also to work
well in a group - A strong interest in integrating ge-
nomic, evolutionary and organismal biology - The abil-
ity to work eectively with diverse groups
Other Considerations: - Experience and comfort withcomputational skills, or willingness to self-teach, espe-
cially in a UNIX/Linux environment, and the use, mod-
ication and implementation of bioinformatics scripts
in languages such as Python and Perl preferred - Ex-
perience with the R statistical package is also a plus
- Experience with analyzing Illumina or other next-
generation sequence data (e.g., assembly and annota-
tion methods) - Experience with population genetic and
phylogenetic methodology - Experience with quantica-
tion of dierential gene expression
The University of Massachusetts Lowell (UML) cam-
pus is located in northeastern Massachusetts, 20 miles
north of the vibrant academic and commercial biotech-
nology centers of Cambridge and Boston. UML is a
full research and teaching university with over 13,000
undergraduate and graduate students. Lowell is within
commuting distance of the Cambridge/Boston area and
the historic city of Lowell is rich in cultural and aca-
demic oerings.
Please direct questions about the position to Jes-
sicaGarb@uml.edu
Applications must be submitted through the UML hu-
man resources jobs website (https://jobs.uml.edu job
reference 0080798) at the following url:
https://jobs.uml.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=3D1356538796125
Please submit a cover letter describing relevant ex-
perience and research interests, curriculum vitae,
sample(s) of scholarly work/publication, and the
names and contact information of three references.
Review of applications will begin January 20, 2013,
and continue until the position is lled. However,
the position may close when an adequate number of
qualied applications are received.
The University of Massachusetts Lowell is committed
to increasing diversity in its faculty, sta, and student
populations, as well as curriculum and support pro-
grams, and promoting an inclusive environment. We
seek candidates who can contribute to that goal and
encourage you to apply and identify your strengths in
this area.
UMontana
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Lila
Fishman at the University of Montana. Our labJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 115
studies speciation, adaptation, and genetic conict in
the model genus Mimulus (monkeyowers): http://-
dbs.umt.edu/research%5Flabs/shmanlab/. The post-
doc will focus on a NSF-funded project investigat-
ing the mechanisms and consequences of selsh chro-
mosomal segregation (female meiotic drive) in yellow
monkeyowers (Fishman & Saunders 2008, Science
322:1559).
Female meiosis results in only a single (successful) mei-
otic product, and is thus an arena for selection among
homologous chromosomes. Centromeres are the pri-
mary combatants in this arena, and their selsh evo-
lution has been proposed to shape individual tness,
speciation, and large scale karyotypic evolution. Mimu-
lus guttatus (yellow monkeyower) is polymorphic for
a centromere-associated meiotic drive locus with strong
negative tness eects, providing a rare opportunity
to understand both the molecular mechanisms that
can subvert equal meiosis and the evolutionary conse-
quences of drive for individual/population tness and
species divergence.
The female meiotic drive project includes FISH exper-
iments to investigate centromere and kinetochore dy-
namics during female meiotic drive, genetic mapping of
unlinked modiers of the strength of drive, and molec-
ular population genetic analyses of the drive locus and
centromeric proteins. The postdoctoral researcher's
primary responsibility will be conducting the molecular
and cytogenetic components of this integrative project,
but he/she will also be encouraged to develop indepen-
dent research on centromere evolution in Mimulus or
other topics. The successful candidate will have earned
a PhD in genetics, molecular biology, evolutionary bi-
ology, or a related eld, and will have strong labora-
tory skills in cytogenetics, evolutionary genetics, or ge-
nomics/bioinformatics. Candidates should also demon-
strate excellent communication and writing skills, as ev-
idenced by international publications and/or successful
grant writing.
The postdoc position will be based at the Univer-
sity of Montana in Missoula, MT, a livable college
town located in the mountains between Yellowstone
and Glacier National Parks. However, some cytoge-
netic work may take place in the labs of collaborators
at the University of Georgia. Funding is available for
two years, subject to review after the rst year, with
an annual salary range of $35,000-40,000 (plus benets)
depending on qualications. Preferred start date: prior
to May 15th, 2013, but somewhat exible.
Review of applications will begin February 15th
2013, and will continue until the position is
lled. Please contact Dr. Fishman via email(lila.shman@mso.umt.edu) with informal inquiries
about the position and lab. However, applications
(letter of interest, CV and names of 3 references)
must be submitted via the UM Human Resources
page: https://university-montana-hr.silkroad.com/-
epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=-
171&company id=16254&version=1&source=-
ONLINE&jobOwner=992274&aid=1 . { Lila Fishman,
Ph.D. Associate Professor Division of Biological Sci-
ences University of Montana Missoula, MT 59812
lila.shman@mso.umt.edu oce: 406 243-5166
lilashman@gmail.com
UNebraska FloralEvolution
The application deadline has been extended to Decem-
ber 20, 2012 for two postdoctoral positions to study
the evolution of ower color in the Smith Lab at the
University of Nebraska. Details about these positions
can be found here: http://www.iochroma.info/home/-
news/positions To apply, email a short cover letter,
a CV and three references to sdsmith@unl.edu. Re-
view of applications will continue until positions are
lled. Please feel free to email sdsmith@unl.edu with
any questions regarding these opportunities.
Stacey D. Smith 314 Manter Hall School of Bio-
logical Sciences University of Nebraska Lincoln, NE
68588-0118 phone: 402-472-6741 phone with voice-
mail: (402) 370-6749 email: sdsmith@unl.edu web-
site: http://www.iochroma.info/ calendar: http://-
www.iochroma.info/people/stacey-1/sdscalendar de-
witt832@gmail.com
UNebraska
MacroevolutionFlowerColor
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN MACROEVOLU-
TION OF FLOWER COLOR, SCHOOL OF BIOLOG-
ICAL SCIENCES, UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-
LINCOLN
A postdoctoral position is available to participate in
a NSF-funded project focusing on the the mechanisms
and macroevolutionary forces shaping the distribution116 EvolDir January 1, 2013
of red owers in Solanaceae. This project will apply
phylogenetic, anatomical, and biochemical methods to
identify the origins of red owers in the family, deter-
mine the mechanistic basis for this coloration, and test
the eect of these ower color transitions on diversi-
cation rates. The position requires a strong inter-
est in macroevolution and comparative approaches; ex-
perience in phylogenetics (including scripting and the
use of R) and/or plant biochemistry (including high-
performance liquid chromatography) is preferred. The
project includes one or more eld trips to Latin Amer-
ica, so experience in working abroad is also a plus.
The Smith Lab (www.iochroma.info) in School of Bi-
ological Sciences at UNL oers a diverse and interac-
tive environment for research in plant evolutionary bi-
ology. We share close ties with other evolutionary biol-
ogy and plant science labs on campus, and we benet
from shared facilities, such as the bioinformatics core
research facility and the core facility for applied ge-
nomics and ecology. Lincoln, Nebraska boasts an out-
standing quality of life that includes a vibrant down-
town with lively music and art scene and a collection of
over 120 parks and 130 miles of bike trails, plus a low
cost of living.
Please note that another postdoctoral position (on
the evolutionary genetics of ower color transitions)
is also currently available (see www.iochroma.info/-
home/news/positions). To apply for one or both po-
sitions, please send a brief letter of interest (1-2 para-
graphs, including the position for which you would like
to be considered), a CV, and the names and contact
information for three references to Stacey D. Smith,
sdsmith@unl.edu. Each position is available for 1 year
with the possibility of renewal for up to two additional
years depending on research progress. Review of ap-
plications will begin on December 15, 2012 and will
continue until the position is lled. The starting date
is exible, but successful candidates could start as early
as February 1, 2013.
{ Stacey D. Smith 314 Manter Hall School of Bio-
logical Sciences University of Nebraska Lincoln, NE
68588-0118 phone: 402-472-6741 phone with voice-
mail: (402) 370-6749 email: sdsmith@unl.edu web-
site: http://www.iochroma.info/ calendar: http://-
www.iochroma.info/people/stacey-1/sdscalendar de-
witt832@gmail.com
UStirling PollinationPostdoctoral Fellowship Evolutionary Ecology of Buzz-
Pollination
A two-year postdoctoral opportunity is available at the
Vallejo-Marin Lab, University of Stirling, Scotland, to
study the evolution and ecology of plant-pollinator in-
teractions. The successful applicant will enter a highly
competitive University-wide selection process for a two-
year postdoctoral fellowship, with the prospect of tran-
sitioning to a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) position
at the end of the fellowship. The Fellow will receive
a xed-term, research-only contract on a salary on the
UK Grade 7 scale ( $30,122 - $35,939) and a grant for
research expenses of $5,000 per year.
The project focuses on buzz-pollination-the use of vi-
brations by bees to rapidly extract pollen from ow-
ers that releases it through small pores in the anthers.
Buzz-pollination occurs in more than 50 families of
owering plants, and includes important crops such as
tomatoes and potatoes. Despite its widespread dis-
tribution and importance for commercially important
crops, little is known about how plant and insect char-
acteristics inuence buzz-pollination. The main focus
of this project will be to investigate how oral mor-
phology and pollinator behaviour shape the ecology
and evolution of buzz-pollination. The project will in-
volve glasshouse and eld experiments on selected buzz-
pollinated plant species including both wild plants and
agricultural crops. Plant work will involve morphologi-
cal and genetic analyses of oral form and its contribu-
tion to pollinator attraction and pollen release. Polli-
nator work will involve the use of wild and captive bees
to study the learning behaviour and eciency of diverse
buzz-pollinators. The project, including eldwork, will
be conducted in conjunction with our collaborators in
the Bahamas, Mexico, and the University Stirling.
The position will be based at the department of Bi-
ological and Environmental Sciences (BES), Univer-
sity of Stirling, Scotland, United Kingdom. The BES
department (http://www.sbes.stir.ac.uk/) is a friendly
and vibrant young group of 27 faculty members and
a rapidly increasing base of postdoctoral fellows and
PhD students. The department has access to several
glasshouse rooms, experimental gardens and a state of
the art controlled-environment facility, as well as molec-
ular labs. Stirling is located in central Scotland, ap-
proximately 50 minutes by train from both Edinburgh
and Glasgow. Its proximity to the Scottish Highlands
also makes it ideal for those enjoying the outdoors.
Applicants should have a PhD with a background
on evolution, ecology or behaviour. Experience in
plant-animal interactions, plant reproduction, insect
behaviour or quantitative genetics will be an asset. Ap-January 1, 2013 EvolDir 117
plicants should have less than 6 years of postdoctoral
experience.
To apply, please send your CV, the name and contact
information for two references, and a cover letter ex-
plaining your suitability for the post to Dr. Mario
Vallejo-Marin (mario.vallejo@stir.ac.uk). Applications
will begin to be reviewed immediately until the position
is lled. Applications received after 15 February 2013
will not be considered.
Informal queries welcome.
Mario Vallejo-Marin Biological and Environmental Sci-
ences School of Natural Sciences University of Stirling
Stirling, FK9 4LA Scotland Tel. (+44) 01786 467822
http://www.sbes.stir.ac.uk/people/vallejo-marin
mario.vallejo@stir.ac.uk
USydney 2 ToadEvolution
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATES IN
THE EVOLUTION AND ECOLOGY OF INVASIVE
CANE TOADS (2x POSITIONS) SCHOOL OF BIO-
LOGICAL SCIENCES REFERENCE NO. 1614/0912
. Enhance your research prole by joining a high-prole
well- funded project . Become part of a world-class re-
search team using a powerful model system to study
evolution operating at ecological timescales . Full-time,
xed term 3-4 years; remuneration package: $92K p.a.,
further oers may be possible subject to funding and
need
The University of Sydney is Australia's rst university
with an outstanding global reputation for academic and
research excellence. It employs over 7500 permanent
sta supporting over 49,000 students.
The School of Biological Sciences is one of the largest
in Australia with research strengths in many areas
of mathematics and statistics. The school attracts a
strong body of excellent students as well as Australian
Research Council (ARC) grants, fellowships, and other
competitive external funding.
Applications are sought for two Postdoctoral Research
Associate positions in the evolution and ecology of in-
vasive cane toads that are funded by an ARC Laureate
Fellowship \Using biological invasions to understand
evolutionary processes" held by Richard Shine.
The project exploits the unique logistical opportuni-
ties oered by the cane toad's Australian invasion topose and test a suite of hypotheses about evolutionary-
ecological processes. In particular, why has the rate
of dispersal of invasion-front toads increased so rapidly
over this relatively brief period? What are the relative
roles of spatial sorting and natural selection in driving
that range-edge acceleration? How and why do cane
toads at the invasion front dier from those in long-
colonised areas in traits such as cognitive ability, be-
havioural syndromes, dispersal tactics, immunobiology,
locomotor ability, morphology and phenotypic plastic-
ity? The project not only will compare such traits be-
tween toads from invasion-front versus long-colonized
areas, but also link those changes to concurrent research
on the genetic divergences that have accumulated dur-
ing the toads' Australian invasion.
This is an opportunity to conduct research in a highly
productive research team, on a project that has gath-
ered substantial international recognition. You will
spend most of your time working out of the University's
Tropical Ecology Research Facility at Middle Point, in
a bushland setting 65km east of the city of Darwin in
the Northern Territory. The eld station has accommo-
dation, oce and laboratory facilities, and four-wheel-
drive vehicles. However, the research also will require
extensive travel in order to collect toads from across
the breadth of the Australian tropics. Teaching is not
a requirement.
You will have: . PhD degree in biology (or be close
to completing one) . sound knowledge of advanced
techniques and demonstrated capability of research in
at least one of the following areas: analyses of mor-
phology, physiology, performance, behaviour, genetics
and/or ecology of free-ranging animals . demonstrated
ability to conduct high-quality research either indepen-
dently or as part of a research team, published research
as sole author or in collaboration, excellent written and
verbal communication skills.
Experience in conducting eldwork in remote areas, and
in working with multidisciplinary teams, will be highly
regarded.
The positions are full-time xed-term for three to four
years subject to completion of a satisfactory probation
and conrmation period for new appointees. Further
oers may be available subject to funding, need and
performance. Successful applicants will need to be-
come members of a University approved superannua-
tion scheme.
Remuneration package: $92K p.a. including $78K p.a.
base salary, leave loading and up to 17% superannua-
tion. Some support towards relocation and visa spon-
sorship will be available for the successful appointees if
required.118 EvolDir January 1, 2013
All applications must be submitted via the University of
Sydney careers website. Visit sydney.edu.au/positions
and search by the reference number for more informa-
tion and to apply.
CLOSING DATE: 13 January 2013 (11:30pm Sydney
time)
The University is an Equal Opportunity employer com-
mitted to equity, diversity and social inclusion. Appli-
cations from equity target groups and women are en-
couraged.
cThe University of Sydney
Recruitment Admin <sr.adminpaulinabrianna@sydney.edu.au >
UTexas Austin EvolutionaryBiol
This email is a reminder that the Section of Integrative
Biology at the University of Texas at Austin invites ap-
plications for a Postdoctoral Fellow in Integrative Bi-
ology. This subject area is broadly dened to include
evolution, ecology, and behavior. The Fellow will be
expected to conduct an independent high-quality re-
search program in collaboration with at least two fac-
ulty in the Section. For information about the Sec-
tion of Integrative Biology at UT and its faculty, visit
http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/ib/ . In addition to their
research responsibilities, one semester per year the Fel-
low will co-teach an undergraduate course on Research
Methods, as part of the UTeach program for training K-
12 science teachers. For information about the UTeach
program, visit http://www.uteach.utexas.edu/ The
position is for two years, subject to annual review. The
Fellow is requested to start work at the University of
Texas no later than August 2013. There is an annual
salary of $40,000 with an additional $10,000 per year
in research support for travel, equipment, or supplies.
Applicants should electronically submit a single pdf le
containing the following, in order: 1) Coverletter, in-
cluding mention of the proposed faculty sponsors (max
1 page). Candidates are advised contact potential fac-
ulty sponsors prior to applying, to gauge the level of
mutual interest. 2) CV 3) Statement of research accom-
plishments (maximum 2 pages). 4) Statement describ-
ing the candidate's proposed research for the duration
of this postdoctoral position (maximum 2 pages). 5)
Statement describing the candidate's teaching experi-
ence and philosophy (maximum 2 pages) 6) Copies of 2
publications 7) List of three references, with contact in-formation (email, telephone, and mailing address). We
will request letters directly from these references, after
identifying top candidates.
The application pdf le should be emailed to ib-
job@austin.utexas.edu, with a subject line \IB Post-
doc Application: <YOUR NAME >". Applications
must be received by January 11, 2013. For ques-
tions about this position, please send an email to ib-
job@austin.utexas.edu, or contact a prospective faculty
mentor in the department.
We encourage applications from candidates that have
recently completed, or will soon complete, their Ph.D.
The University of Texas is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer.
danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu
UWashington StatisticalGenetics
University of Washington Department of Statistics
Position Title: Postdoctoral Research Associate.
Position Description: A full-time (1.0 FTE) postdoc-
toral research position is available in the Department of
Statistics at the University of Washington in the area
of statistical methodology for inference in the analy-
sis of genetic and genomic data on related individuals.
The position involves collaboration with faculty in the
Department of Biostatistics and in Medical Genetics.
This is a two-year position, subject to satisfactory per-
formance and availability of funding.
The University of Washington Department of Statistics
is an internationally recognized leader in statistical sci-
ence research with 21 faculty members and numerous
adjust and aliate faculty. In the area of statistical ge-
netics and genomics we have also strong collaborative
links in teaching and research with the departments of
Biostatistics and of Genome Sciences, which are also
international leaders in their elds.
Research topics include, but are not limited to: 1)
Developing statistical methodology and theory for in-
ferring the structure of relatedness among individuals
from genome-wide marker and/or sequence data. 2)
Developing new methodology and theory for incorpo-
rating location-specic relatedness information into the
analysis of data on complex genetic traits.
Position Qualications: The successful candidate
should have: 1) completed (or be expected to completeJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 119
by Jan 2013) a Ph. D. in Statistics, Biostatistics, or in
Computational Genomics or Population Genetics with
a strong Statistical modeling and inference emphasis
including knowledge of HMM and/or graphical models.
2) A strong research record evidenced by high quality
publications, as well as good communication and team
work skills, and ability to lead research and develop
ideas independently. 3) Demonstrated programming
skills, including knowledge of C and R, and a willing-
ness to program (not exclusively) in these languages.
Salary Range: Salary and benets will be in accordance
with NIH and University of Washington salary scales
and policies.
Application: To apply, please send CV, a research state-
ment, and email contact information for three refer-
ees, to Dr. Elizabeth Thompson, (eathomp@uw.edu).
Please send all information as plain text with ONLY
PDF attachments and/or references to a web page.
Application Deadline: Open until lled
The University of Washington is an armative action,
equal opportunity employer. The University is build-
ing a culturally diverse faculty and sta and strongly
encourages applications from women, minorities, indi-
viduals with disabilities and covered veterans.
eathomp@u.washington.edu
UYork MicrobialEvolution
ERC Postdoctoral Research Associate in Microbiology
/ Environmental Microbiology / Microbial Ecology &
Evolution
University of York -Department of Biology
Ref: 2764
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher to work on a project investigating plasmid-
mediated horizontal gene transfer (HGT) in natural
communities of soil microbes. This project, which is
funded by the European Research Council (ERC), will
take a novel coevolutionary perspective to understand
the role of plasmid-mediated HGT in bacterial adap-
tation and the consequences of HGT for the structure
and functioning of natural microbial communities.
You will be responsible for the project on a day-to-day
basis, performing experimental evolution experiments,
a range of phenotypic and molecular analyses and large-
scale whole-genomic and metagenomic next-generationsequencing. You should hold a PhD in microbiology /
environmental microbiology / microbial ecology & evo-
lution or related discipline and have an advanced level
of practical and theoretical knowledge of microbiologi-
cal laboratory techniques. Candidates with training in
environmental microbiology (particularly soils), plas-
mid biology or next-generation genomics approaches
are strongly encouraged to apply.
This post is available from 1 February 2013 for a period
of up to 5 years with a salary in the range $29,541 -
$36,298 per annum.
Informal enquiries may be made to Professor Michael
Brockhurst (email: michael.brockhurst@york.ac.uk).
Closing date: 6 January 2013
https://jobs.york.ac.uk/wd/plsql/-
wdportal.show job?p websiteid=-
3885&p webpage id=159707 Michael Brockhurst
<michael.brockhurst@york.ac.uk >
Umea Sweden Bioinformatics
Post-doc in bioinformatics Sweden
SLU Sweden seeks a highly motivated researcher for
a 2 year post-doc in bioinformatics on wild animal
model systems. The successful candidate will have a
strong background in evolutionary or ecological genet-
ics, computational analysis of next-generation sequenc-
ing (NGS) data, and prociency in relational database
design and management. The position is placed
in the Molecular Ecology Research Group <http://-
www.slu.se/wfe/merg >(SLU Ume a). Additional sup-
port will be provided by the Computational Genet-
ics Group <http://www.computationalgenetics.se >
(SLU Uppsala). Ongoing research at the depart-
ment uses genetic techniques to address a wide range
of questions in conservation, ecology and evolution.
Together with Scilife <http://www.scilifelab.se >in
Stockholm/Uppsala we are currently expanding our ca-
pacity for genetic analyses of our most important model
species (e.g. moose, salmon, trout, lion, brown bear) by
high throughput sequencing, genotyping-by-sequencing
and SNP chip development. The successful candidate is
expected to fully engage in this work, which could in-
clude individual research, programming, primary and
coauthoring proposals and papers. The acquisition of
additional third-party funding may allow independent
expansion of the model systems or research questions120 EvolDir January 1, 2013
addressed.
Review of the applications will begin on January 3, 2013
and continue until the position is lled. Please submit
curriculum vitae, a description of research interests and
two letters of reference via email to registrator@slu.se.
For further information please contact: Ass. Prof.
G oran Spong (goran.spong@slu.se) or Prof. Orjan
Carlborg (orjan.carlborg@slu.se).
G oran Spong Associate Professor jMolecular Ecology
Research Group <http://www.slu.se/wfe/merg >j
Wildlife, Fish, & Environmental Studies jSLUj90183
Ume ajSweden
G oran Spong <Goran.Spong@slu.se >
UppsalaU EvolEcolGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN EVOLUTION-
ARYGENETICS (SPECIATION)
A two-year postdoctoral position INEVOLUTIONARY
GENETICS is available at the Department of Ecol-
ogy andGenetics, Evolutionary Biology Center, Upp-
sala University, Sweden, starting assoon as possible or
as agreed upon.
In this project, you will study genome divergence and
the evolutionarygenetics of reproductive isolation in a
naturally hybridizing species pair of /Silene/. We have
previously identiedvarious reproductive barriers be-
tween the two species, including habitatadaptation and
con-specic pollen precedence. In this project, genomic
regionscontrolling reproductive barriers will be identi-
ed using massive parallelsequencing in order to study
their evolution and their role in speciation.
The post-doc will be part of Sophie Karrenbergs
group (http://www.ebc.uu.se/forskning/IEG/Plant/-
People/Karrenberg Sophie/).
The Evolutionary Biology Center (EBC, http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/?languageId=3D1) houses about
300evolutionary biologists from various research
elds including genetics,genomics and ecology
providing for excellent possibilities of collabora-
tion.Numerous seminars and journal clubs are held.
International recruitment iscommon on all levels
and the working language is English. State of the
artlocal platforms for next-generation sequencing
(http://www.scilifelab.uu.se)and high-performance
computational analyses (http://www.uppmax.uu.se)are available.
We seek a highly motivated person with a PhD in evolu-
tionarygenetics/genomics and previous experience with
next-generation sequencing. Experiencewith ecologi-
cal experiments and statistical programming is a plus.
Candidatesmust be uent in English (orally and writ-
ten). We are looking for individualswho excel at work-
ing independently and, at the same time have the inter-
personaland communication skills to succeed at working
in a team.
For more information please contact Sophie Kar-
renberg (sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se[1], +46 18 471
2863).Union representatives are Anders Grundstr om,
Saco (Swedish Confederation ofprofessional Associ-
ations), tel. +46 18 471 53 80 och Carin
S oderh all,TCO/ST (Swedish confederation of Profes-
sional Employees), tel. +46 18 47119 96, Stefan
Djurstr om, Seko (the union of service and communi-
cationemployees), tel. +46 18 471 33 15.
How to apply: Please submit a letter of motivation, a
curriculum vitaeand a short (1-3 page) description of
your past research accomplishments andfuture research
plans. The application should further include contact-
information for at least two reference persons. Relevant
publications should beenclosed. The application should
be sent by e-mail to registrator@uu.se[2]. In any cor-
respondence please use the reference number UFV-PA
2012/2893. Please apply no later than January 9, 2013.
Sophie Karrenberg Associate Professor
Uppsala University Evolutionary Biology Center Dept.
of Ecology and Genetics Plant Ecology and Evolution
Norbyv agen 18 D 752 36 UPPSALA Sweden
+46-(0)18-471 2863
sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se
http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/-
Plant+Ecology+and+Evolution/People/-
Karrenberg Sophie/?languageId=1 L ankar: |
|- [1] /horde3sso/imp/message.php?index2 [2]
/horde3sso/imp/message.php?index2
sophie.karrenberg@ebc.uu.se
Vienna
PhylogenyPopulationGenetics
A two-year postdoctoral position is available in theJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 121
group of Dr. Carolin Kosiol at the Institute of Pop-
ulation Genetics at the Vetmeduni Vienna. The po-
sition will be associated with the project \Empirical
codon models for comparative re-sequencing data" and
is funded by a Stand-Alone Grant of the Austrian
Science Fund (FWF). The project builds on a phy-
logentic model that is aware of polymorphisms in re-
sequencing data and that has recently been developed
for nucleotides in the group. The project will use poly-
morphism as well as divergence data from primate and
Drosophila populations.
Candidates will be expected to have completed a PhD
in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, Mathemat-
ics, Statistics, Computer Science or a related eld.
Good programming skills, experience in C, C++ or
Java and a scripting language such as Python or Perl
are essential. Preferably the candidate has prior ex-
perience with either phylogeny or population genetics,
but applicants from other areas of bioinformatics are
welcome to apply. My group works on probabilistic
models of sequence evolution, comparative genomics,
next generation sequencing, population genetic aspects
of phylogenetics, molecular evolution and natural selec-
tion.
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one of
the leading centers in evolutionary biology (http://-
www.evolvienna.at). In addition to a stimulating sci-
entic environment, Vienna is also a liveable city with
aordable housing, good public transport and an excit-
ing cultural life. Please send a letter of interest, CV,
and the names and contact details of two referees to
Carolin Kosiol at carolin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at Ques-
tions and requests for more information should be di-
rected to the same address. Review of applications will
begin on 15 January 2013 and will continue until the
position is lled.
Carolin Kosiol Group Leader in Bioinformatics Insti-
tute of Population Genetics Vetmeduni Vienna Vet-
erin arplatz 1 A-1210 WIEN, Austria TEL +43(0)1-
25077-4331
Lab Website: http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/-
pop/Kosiol website/kosiol home.html Vienna
Graduate School of Population Genetics:
http://www.popgen-vienna.at Carolin Kosiol
<carolin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at >
WashingtonU SocialEvolutionAvailable postdoctoral fellowships on social evolution,
multicellularity, kin recognition, and symbiosis in the
social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum at Washing-
ton University in St. Louis
One or more postdoctoral positions for 2-3 years are
available in 2013 for work on the social amoeba Dic-
tyostelium discoideum, a unique and exciting model
organism for social evolution, multicellularity, sym-
biosis, and kin recognition. D. discoideum has co-
operation, conict, and complete reproductive altru-
ism in its social stage. It also has a short gener-
ation time, sequenced genomes, a library of identi-
ed cheater knockouts, known recognition genes, eas-
ily manipulated population structures, and agricultural
and defense symbioses with bacteria. Questions fo-
cus on the specics of kin recognition and related-
ness elevation in social groups, symbioses with bac-
teria, and the role of conict in multicellular life cy-
cles. We are a friendly and interactive team of highly
motivated investigators. We are seeking an energetic
postdoc with a strong background in evolutionary bi-
ology, social behavior, microbial evolution, genomics,
or molecular biology with an interest in working at
the interfaces of these disciplines. Check out our web-
site, http://strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/-
for more information on our research. If you
are interested, please send an email to Joan Strass-
mann (strassmann@wustl.edu) and David Queller
(queller@wustl.edu) with a CV, statement of research
interests, and the names, phone numbers, and email
addresses of three references. Women and underrepre-
sented minorities are particularly encouraged to apply.
We will begin reviewing applications 15 December 2012
and will continue to do so until the positions are lled.
David C. Queller, Joan E. Strassmann, Department of
Biology, Campus Box 1137, One Brookings Drive, St.
Louis MO 63130-4899.
Joan E. Strassmann, Professor of Biology, Depart-
ment of Biology, Washington University, One Brook-
ings Drive, Campus Box 1137, St. Louis MO 63130
phone: (314) 935-3527 fax: (314) 935-
4432, cell: (832) 978-5961skype: strassm, e-
mail strassmann@wustl.edu Webpage: http:/-
/strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/-
Blogs: http://sociobiology.wordpress.com/-
http://slowbirding.wordpress.com http://-
goodbyehouston.wordpress.com/ Twitter:
@JoanStrassmann
Joan Strassmann <strassmann@wustl.edu >122 EvolDir January 1, 2013
WorkshopsCourses
HumboldtStateU SpeciesModeling Mar17-21 . . . . . 122
Lisbon Evolution Jul15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Lisbon Evolution Mar11-15 CallForStudents . . . . . .123
Lund ScienceCommunication March11-15 . . . . . . . . 124
Lyon ComparativeGenomics Jan21-Feb1 . . . . . . . . . 124
MountainLakeBiolStation ConservationBiol . . . . . . 125UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationGenomics . . . 125
UGroningen MicrobialEvol Feb11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
UOxford ComputationalBiol Jul8-Aug16 . . . . . . . . . 127
Umea Sweden SpeciesInteractionsSpeciation Jan16-18
128
HumboldtStateU SpeciesModeling
Mar17-21
Humboldt State University (Arcata, California, USA)
is hosting a special 4.5 day workshop on occupancy
modeling this spring (March 17-21). The workshop
instructor, Darryl I. MacKenzie, is an internationally
renowned biometrician, particularly for his work on
the development and application of species occurrence
models. This workshop will cover many of the lat-
est methods for modeling patterns and dynamics of
species occurrence in a landscape while accounting for
the imperfect detection of the species. Participants
will be introduced to available software through worked
examples, and there will be special emphasis on as-
pects of study design. While primarily aimed at the
beginner and intermediate level, more experienced re-
searchers will also benet from attending. The course
fee is $750 (before 15 January) and $850 (after 15 Jan-
uary). The course will be limited to 19 participants!
It is CRITICAL that we reach our enrollment tar-
get by 31 January or the workshop will be cancelled!
Registration will be begin on 2 January at this web-
site: www.humboldt.edu/omw For more details please
email: Andrew.Kinziger@Humboldt.edu
Andrew P. Kinziger, Ph.D. Associate Professor and Cu-
rator of Fishes Department of Fisheries Biology Hum-
boldt State University One Harpst Street Arcata CA
95521707-826-3944
\Andrew P. Kinziger"
<Andrew.Kinziger@humboldt.edu >
Lisbon Evolution Jul15-19
1st CALL FOR STUDENTS: 1st International SUM-
MER School on Evolution
July 15th - 19th, 2013 jCi^ encia Viva Knowledge Pavil-
ion, Lisbon, Portugal
Website: http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt
We are happy to inform you that registration for the 1st
International Summer School on Evolution will open on
January 7th, 2013. Courses are open to international
Master, PhD and Post-doctoral students in the exact,
life, human and sociocultural evolutionary sciences.
About the courses
>From Monday to Friday, parallel sessions are orga-
nized whereby visiting sta provide a 10-hour course
(2 hours a day) on critical aspects of biological and so-
ciocultural evolution. The courses are centered around
the following modules.
Module 1: EVOLutionary theory
Courses are taught by: Lu s Villarreal, Ilya T emkin,
Frietson Galis.January 1, 2013 EvolDir 123
Module 2: sociocultural Evolution
Courses are taught by Fiona Jordan, Marion Blute,
Nathalie Gontier & Emanuele Serrelli.
Module 3: philosophy of biology
Courses are taught by Derek Turner, Fr ed eric
Bouchard, Michael Ruse.
All courses are taught at a level accessible to Master,
PhD and post-doctoral students in the exact, life, hu-
man and sociocultural evolutionary sciences. Students
of evolutionary biology, evolutionary developmental bi-
ology, virology, paleontology, evolutionary linguistics,
evolutionary anthropology, and philosophy of biology
will especially benet from these courses.
Students will be provided a mandatory reading list
which will form the basis of lectures and discussions.
There are neither examinations nor paper assignments.
REGISTRATION FEE
350 euro for the whole week, regardless the number of
courses you chose.
HOW TO ENROLL
You can enroll for a specic module (therefore follow-
ing a 30-hour course on the subject) or you may choose
three courses of your specic interest.
About the SUMMER School
The School is organized by the Applied Evolutionary
Epistemology Lab of the Centre for Philosophy of Sci-
ence of the University of Lisbon, in collaboration with
Ci^ encia Viva and with the support of the John Temple-
ton Foundation.
SUBSCRIBE TO THE SUMMER SCHOOL MAIL-
INGLIST
http://eepurl.com/n2EGb Websites
http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt, http://appeel.fc.ul.pt
Find us on Facebook
https://www.facebook.com/events/374500115949579
appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt
Lisbon Evolution Mar11-15
CallForStudents
3rd CALL FOR STUDENTS: 1st International Winter
School on EvolutionMarch 11th - 15th, 2013 jCi^ encia Viva Knowledge
Pavilion, Lisbon, Portugal
Website: http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt We are happy
to inform you that registration is now open for the 1st
International Winter School on Evolution. Courses are
open to international Master, PhD and Post-doctoral
students in the exact, life, human and sociocultural evo-
lutionary sciences.
ABOUT THE COURSES
>From Monday to Friday, parallel sessions are orga-
nized whereby visiting sta provide a 10-hour course
(2 hours a day) on critical aspects of biological and so-
ciocultural evolution. The courses are centered around
the following modules.
MODULE 1: Macroevoluton and the Major Evolution-
ary Transitions Courses are taught by: Bruce Lieber-
man, Folmer Bokma, E ors Szathm ary.
MODULE 2: Language Evolution Courses are taught
by William Croft, M onica Tamariz, Daniel Dor.
MODULE 3: Symbiogenesis, Lateral Gene Transfer
and Virolution Courses are taught by Douglas Zook,
William Martin, Michael Arnold.
All courses are taught at a level accessible to Mas-
ter, PhD and post-doctoral students in the exact, life,
human and sociocultural evolutionary sciences. Stu-
dents of evolutionary biology, microbiology, paleontol-
ogy, evolutionary linguistics, evolutionary anthropol-
ogy, and philosophy of biology will especially benet
from these courses.
Students will be provided a mandatory reading list
which will form the basis of lectures and discussions.
There are neither examinations nor paper assignments.
REGISTRATION FEE
350 euro for the whole week, regardless the number of
courses you choose.
HOW TO ENROLL
You can enroll for a specic module (therefore follow-
ing a 30-hour course on the subject) or you may choose
three courses of your specic interest. Places are lim-
ited, we therefore advise you to enroll as quickly as
possible.
ABOUT THE WINTER SCHOOL
The School is organized by the Applied Evolutionary
Epistemology Lab of the Centre for Philosophy of Sci-
ence of the University of Lisbon, in collaboration with
Ci^ encia Viva and with the support of the John Temple-
ton Foundation.
DOWNLOAD OUR POSTER124 EvolDir January 1, 2013
http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt/winter/docs/winter.pdf
SUBSCRIBE TO THE WINTER SCHOOL MAIL-
INGLIST
http://eepurl.com/n2ELH WEBSITES
http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt, http://appeel.fc.ul.pt
appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt
Lund ScienceCommunication
March11-15
Dear PhD students,
Scientists are increasingly required to be eective sci-
ence communicators to both their peers and non-
experts, such as the general public, journalists and pol-
icy makers.
The ClimBEco Graduate Research School in Sweden
( http://www.cec.lu.se/graduate-research-school) is of-
fering a one week course to help PhD students develop
the tools needed to communicate their research eec-
tively.
The details of the course are given below.
Course title: Communicating Scientic Research
Course date: 11-15 March 2013 Location: Biol-
ogy Department, Lund University, Sweden ECTS
Points: 3 Last date of registration: 20th January
2013 Information and link to expression of inter-
est: http://www.cec.lu.se/images/CEC/Climbeco/-
Course description forCommunicating Science.pdf
ClimBEco Research School students will be given
priority for entering the course, but others are invited
to join. The course is free. Participants not part of
ClimBEco need to cover travel and accommodation
costs.
*Maren Wellenreuther*
Marie Curie Postdoctoral Researcher Department of Bi-
ology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
*http://marenwellenreuther.com/index.html
http://www.lu.se/meel/people/postdocs/maren-
wellenreuther <http://www.lu.se/o.o.i.s/26164 >
*
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.comLyon ComparativeGenomics
Jan21-Feb1
European Course \Comparative Genomics" 2013
Organizers: Jean-Nicolas Vol (ENS Lyon), C eline
Brochier (University Lyon 1)
Since 2008, we organize the European course entitled
\Comparative Genomics" for Master and PhD students
from the Ecole Normale Superieure of Lyon and from
other European universities.
This year the course will be held from 21 January - 1
February 2013 at the Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyon
(France,http://www.ens-lyon.fr). The course aims at
initiating students to Comparative Genomics, a young
and fast-evolving scientic eld with a growing impact
on science and societies.
The course covers ten major topics of comparative ge-
nomics with an emphasis on recent major discover-
ies and innovating concepts/approaches in the elds of
biology, ecology, medicine and biotechnologies. Each
topic is presented by two internationally reputed scien-
tists with complementary views/approaches. The two
lectures are followed by a round table with the students
and the two speakers.
The program and registration form are available at:
http://lbbe-dmz.univ-lyon1.fr/spip cg/ Jean-Nicolas
Vol and C eline Brochier
C eline Brochier-Armanet
Laboratoire de Biom etrie et Biologie Evolutive - UMR
CNRS 5558 Universit e Lyon 1, 43 Bd du 11 Novembre
1918 69622 Villeurbanne, France
Tel: 33 (0)4 26 23 44 76 Mail: celine.brochier-
armanet@univ-lyon1.fr
Web page: http://www.frangun.org LIVRE: http:/-
/www.springer.com/life+sciences/bioinformatics/-
book/978-2-287-99047-2 celine.brochier-
armanet@univ-lyon1.fr
MountainLakeBiolStation
ConservationBiolJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 125
ANNOUNCING: Summer 2013 Field Courses and REU
Opportunities Mountain Lake Biological Station <
http://mlbs.org/ >MLBS.org
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
Mountain Lake Biological Station (University of Vir-
ginia) is pleased to announce its summer program
of eld-based undergraduate and graduate-level credit
courses oered by nationally recruited faculty, and its
NSF REU undergraduate research internship program,
now in its 21st year. Work at MLBS focuses on
eld-based ecology, evolution, physiology, and behav-
ior. Learn more about the programs and apply on-line:
Courses: Plant Conservation and Diversity, Techniques
in Conservation Biology, Wildlife Disease Ecology, Be-
havioral Endocrinology, Biology of Fungi and Draw-
ing - http://mlbs.org/summercourses REU: http://-
mlbs.org/reuprogram, a 10 week living and learning re-
search experience for undergraduates program.
Please forward this information to colleagues or stu-
dents you think might be interested.
Thanks for your help!
**** Learn all about Mountain Lake opportunities at
<http://mlbs.org/ >MLBS.org ****
Butch Brodie Director, Mountain Lake Biological Sta-
tion Executive Vice President, Society for the Study of
Evolution
Department of Biology University of Virginia P.O. Box
400328 Charlottesville, VA 22904-4328
bbrodie@virginia.edu http://mlbs.org/ http://-
faculty.virginia.edu/brodie/
Mountain Lake Biological Station
<mlbs@virginia.edu >
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationGenomics
UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics,
23-28 March, 2013
Conservation biology and genetics have had a long and
intimate relationship, and constitute one of the key ap-
plications of evolutionary analysis to real-world biologi-
cal problems. The impacts of population genetics, phy-
logenetics and phylogeography have been particularly
striking for conservation biology, and have helped solve
some of the most pressing problems in biological con-servation.
As the eld of landscape-based genetics continues to
grow and mature, the increasing availability of genomic-
level data, analytical models and methods stand to
make profound new contributions to our ability to
identify and protect at-risk populations and recover
those that are most endangered. However, genomic
level analyses also carry a heavy burden-data sets are
enormous, often requiring diverse computational ap-
proaches for assembly, quality control and analysis.
This annual workshop will provide a comfortable, in-
formal training environment for a small group of moti-
vated graduate students to explore how conservation
problems can best be addressed with genomic-level
data. Our goal is to provide hands-on experience on
the ecient collection, troubleshooting, and analysis of
large data sets for conservation-relevant problems. One
of the highlights of our workshop is active participation
from members of several US government agencies who
are at the forefront of endangered species protection
and management, providing a forum for exploring the
most relevant aspects of conservation genomics to man-
agers.
The UCLA/La Kretz workshop will be held at the
La Kretz Field Station in the heart of the Santa
Monica Mountains. Only 30 miles from UCLA (and
LAX airport), but nestled in the relatively undevel-
oped 160,000 acre Santa Monica Mountains National
Recreation Area, the Field Station provides an ideal
location that brings exciting new developments in ge-
nomic science and pressing needs in conservation and
management together in a single setting. Our current
instructor list, drawn from UCLA faculty and several
other southern California partners, includes:
Mike Alfaro Paul Barber Christie Brigham Brant Fair-
cloth Robert Fisher Dave Jacobs Kirk Lohmueller
Sergey Nuzhdin John Pollinger Seth Riley Brad Shaer
Tom Smith Victoria Sork Phil Spinks Bob Wayne
Topics covered include:
Traditional conservation genetics Next generation plat-
forms: the best tool for the job Data management
pipelines: Quality Control Data storage Data organi-
zation Data analysis: SNPs Sequences Exploring very
large data sets Functional genomic data Genomic data
and GIS Conservation phylogenomics
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enroll-
ment to ~15 students. Preference is given to doctoral
candidates who are in the early to middle stages of
their thesis research, and who have completed su-
cient prerequisites (through previous coursework or re-
search experience) to have some familiarity with using a126 EvolDir January 1, 2013
command line interface or programming languages (i.e.
Perl, python etc.). Unfortunately, because of limits on
class size, postdocs and faculty are discouraged from
applying.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based
on academic qualications and appropriateness of re-
search interests. The course fee is $350. This includes
food and lodging at the La Kretz Field Station, as well
as any incidental fees, for the duration of the course
(arriving March 23, departing March 28).
Application Forms and Information Visit the La Kretz
Center for California Conservation Science website for
additional information and to download an application
form: http://www.environment.ucla.edu/media/les/-
CGW2013application-eb-53m.docx Application Dead-
line Applications are due by January 11, 2013. Please
send a completed application form and one letter of rec-
ommendation from your major advisor. Students will
be notied via e-mail by January 18, 2013 of accep-
tance.
Applications should be sent as PDFs via email to:
Phil Spinks email: pqspinks@ucla.edu
pqspinks@ucla.edu
UGroningen MicrobialEvol Feb11-15
New Frontiers in Microbial Ecology The Microbiome vs
Holobiont and Ecosystem: New Perspectives of Life
Organizers Under the auspices of the Research School
Ecology & Evolution (RSEE), PE&RC and SENSE.
Prof.Dr. J.D. van Elsas (Microbial Ecology, RuG,
Groningen)
Prof.Dr. H. van Veen ( Dept. Microbial Ecology,
Netherlands Institute of Ecology , Wageningen)
Dr. G.A. Kowalchuk (Ecology and Biodiversity,
Utrecht University)
Aim of the course To provide students with an apprecia-
tion of the most important current developments in the
eld of microbial ecology and evolution . The course
is primarily aimed at PhD level students, but is also
open to advanced Master level students with interest in
microbial ecology.
Contents and structure
Microbial communities are central to the key biogeo-chemical processes of all of Earth's ecosystems. Fur-
thermore, it is becoming increasingly clear that micro-
biomes play fundamental roles in the life of nearly all
other organisms, be they plants, coral reefs, insects or
humans. A main thrust to our understanding of these
communities has come from the rapid development and
application of molecular techniques, and more recently
high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies.
This course will examine our current understanding of
the diversity and functioning of the relevant microbial
communities in the above systems.
A limited number of expert teachers will deliver lectures
and the students will also have the opportunity for in
depth study a topic of their choice from the literature,
after which the topic will be put up for discussion with
the teachers and other students.
Topics:
- Metagenomics
- Microbiomes aecting hosts or ecosystems:
a.. humans b.. plants c.. ecosystems: terrestrial and
aquatic - How do microorganisms interact with each
other and with their hosts?
- Microbial diversity versus function: does diversity
matter?
- Microbial evolution and horizontal gene transfer
Teachers will include internationally renowned lectur-
ers, as well as esteemed colleagues from the Nether-
lands.
Provisional program:
Day 1 (Sunday 10th February 2013): Arrival, Registra-
tion and Dinner at the course venue 'Assumburg Cas-
tle', Heemkerk, the Netherlands
Day 2 (Monday):
8.45- 9.30 Introduction to the course; history and recent
developments in Microbial Ecology (Dick van Elsas /
Hans van Veen)
9.45-11.00 What tools do we have to study the struc-
ture of microbial communities and an introduction to
the \omics" toolbox ? (Dick van Elsas / G. Kowalchuk)
11.15-12.45 The microbiota of humans ^ a\ the human
intestine
13.00-14.30 Lunch
14.30-16.30 The microbiota of plants ^ a" The rhizo-
sphere and rhizoplane (Hans van Veen)
16.30- 18.30 Free: read articles in preparation for dis-
cussionJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 127
19.00- 21.00 Dinner
Day 3 (Tuesday):
8.45- 10.30 The microbiota of soils ^ a\ functional assess-
ments (George Kowalchuk )
10.45-12.30 The microbiota of marine systems ^ a" func-
tional assessments
12.30-14.00 Lunch
14.00-15.00 Microbial diversity and function (Joana
Salles)
15.00-16.00 What rules structure microbial communi-
ties
16.00-16.30 Snack
16.30- 17.30 Instructions for student presentations
17.30 General discussion led by Kowalchuk/Salles
19.00- 21.00 Dinner
Day 4 ( Wednesday):
8.45- 10.30 Microbial evolution
10.45-12.30 Horizontal Gene Transfer (Dick van Elsas)
12.30-14.00 Lunch
14.00- 16.00 Student presentations I
16.00- 18.00 General discussion led by van Elsas / Salles
19.00- 21.00 Dinner
Day 5 (Thursday):
8.45- 10.30 Microbial genomics
10.45-12.30 Microbial metagenomics and bioinformatics
12.30-14.00 Lunch
14.00-16.00 Student presentations II
16.00-16.30 Snack
16.30- 18.30 Student Literature discussion
19.00- 21.00 Dinner
Day 6 ( Friday):
8.45- 10.15 Applied microbial ecology: Medical context
10.15-11.45 Applied microbial ecology: Agricultural
context
11.45 - 12.00 Packing
12.00-14.00 Lunch
13.15-14.45 Applied Microbiology: Environmental con-
text
14.45-15.00 End of course & Farewell
Duration and dates 5 days. The course will kick o onsunday night the 10th of February and nishes at 15.00
on friday the 15nd of February 2013.
Location The course will be held 'in house' at Stay
Okay, Heemskerk (Assumburg Castle, Heemskerk, The
Netherlands), some 30 minutes from the Schiphol In-
ternational Airport. Bedding and full catering will be
provided and is included in the course fee. Transporta-
tion to and from de venue will be provided at a set
time.
Costs Registration fee is 350, for PhD students with
an approved TSP participating in RSEE, SENSE or
PE&RC. Other PhD participants pay 450,- and non-
PhD participants pay 500,-*. Master student partici-
pants: please contact C.M. Eising
* Fees may be subject to a reduction depending on your
school and the number of participants.
Registration Please note that for the course to continue,
the minimum number of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOxford ComputationalBiol
Jul8-Aug16
University of Oxford
Oxford Summer School in Computational Biology 2013
>From July 8th until August 16th 2013, a project-
based summer school in computational biology will take
place at the University of Oxford. Applications are in-
vited from outstanding students who have completed at
least two years of undergraduate study, with a strong
background in mathematics, statistics, computer sci-
ence, physics or chemistry.
Students will work in teams of three for the six-week
period on a cutting-edge research project in bioinfor-
matics and computational biology, working with lead-
ing researchers from Oxford and a number of collabo-
rators visiting from overseas.
The programme will also include a series of lectures
and tutorials covering key topics in bioinformatics and
genome analysis and presentations from top researchers
in the eld.128 EvolDir January 1, 2013
Accepted students will be oered university accommo-
dation for the duration of the programme and will re-
ceive a stipend towards living expenses.
For more information, and to apply, visit Sum-
mer School 2013 <http://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/ data/-
assets/pdf le/0005/8492/A4 ier10.12.12Summer >
Final application deadline: 4th March, 2013
Madeline Mitchell PA to Professor Jotun Hein, Profes-
sor Chris Holmes & Group Secretary, (Professor Pe-
ter Donnelly FRS FMedSci (WTCHG): PA +44 1865
287725) Department of Statistics University of Oxford
1 South Parks Road Oxford OX1 3TG
tel. (0)1865 285386: fax. (0)1865 285384
email: mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk
www.stats.ox.ac.uk Madeline Mitchell
<madeline.mitchell@stats.ox.ac.uk >
Umea Sweden
SpeciesInteractionsSpeciation
Jan16-18
Dear colleague,
The workshop Species interactions and speciation will
take place in Ume ~A, Sweden, during January 16-18. We
would be most grateful to you if you could kindly share
this information with potentially interested colleagues
in your research group or department.
It is commonly recognized that species interactions can
play an important role in the speciation process, both
by enabling reproductive isolation and by generating
ecological conditions that favor adaptive speciation.Despite this, much contemporary speciation research
focuses on single species in isolation. The aim of this
workshop is to bring together leading speciation re-
searchers for three days of talks and discussion on the
role of species interactions in speciation.
This workshop will be organized as part of the Euro-
pean Science Foundation's Research Networking Pro-
gramme Frontiers of Speciation Research (FroSpects),
which is funded by 16 of ESF's national member orga-
nizations. The aims of FroSpects are to bridge between
dierent approaches to speciation research and to pro-
mote integrative perspectives that interface empirical
insights with theoretical advances and bring together
developments in ecology, systematics, and genetics.
In addition to about 10 invited presentations, the con-
ference will feature contributed talks and a poster ses-
sion. Conrmed invited speakers include Mike Boots,
University of Exeter, UK, Tucker Gilman, University
of Manchester, UK, Rees Kassen, University of Ot-
tawa, Canada, Nicolas Loeuille, Universit e Pierre et
Marie Curie, Paris, France, Rupert Mazzucco, Inter-
national Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Lax-
enburg, Austria, Hans Metz, Leiden University, Nether-
lands, J orgen Ripa, Lund University, Sweden, Axel
Rossberg, Cefas & Queen's University Belfast, UK, and
Richard Svanb ack, Uppsala University, Sweden.
Registration is open at www.kbc.umu.se/species-
interactions-and-speciation-registration.html With
many thanks and best wishes,
~Ake Br annstr om & Ulf Dieckmann
Workshop website: http://www.kbc.umu.se/events/-
species-interaction-and-speciation-home.html About
FroSpects: http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/-
EEP/FroSpects About ESF: http://www.esf.org
About Ume ~A University: http://www.umu.se ~Ake
Br annstr om <ake.brannstrom@gmail.com >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if itJanuary 1, 2013 EvolDir 129
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.