E v o l D i r
March 1, 2017
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 147
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Conferences
Austin SMBE Jul2-6 AbstractsExtFeb15 . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Austin SMBE Jul2-6 UndergradTravelMentorAwards 3
FortWorth Texas EvolutionPlants Jun24-28 Trav-
elAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Gothenburg SEB PalaeogenomicAncientDNA Jul3-6 3
Groningen EvolutionMedicine Aug18-21 AbstractsDue-
Feb15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Harpenden UK InsectGenomics May16 Registration 4
Honolulu HistoryOfPacicMarineLife May23-25 Dead-
line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Idaho Moscow AmericanSocMammalogists Jun20-24 6
IowaStateU AGA EvolQuantGenet Jun1-3 . . . . . . . . . .6
JohnInnesCentre UK PlantEvolution Jul24-26 . . . . . . 7
London WildlifeConservation Mar14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Lyon AI EvolutionaryDynamics Sep4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Moscow InvertebrateEvol Aug18-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9MountainLakeBioStn WaltonLecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Paris Holobionts Apr19-21 RegistrationExt . . . . . . . . 10
Peterborough Canada WildlifeConservation May1-4 10
Philadelphia EPiC Evolution Apr15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Porquerolles France MathCompEvolBiol Jun12-16 . 11
Portland Oregon JoeFelsenstein Jun22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Portland OR Evolution2017 Jun23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Portland SSE GeneticTransmission Jun23-27 . . . . . . 13
QueensU OntEcolEvol May18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Smithsonian BGI BioGenomics Feb21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Smithsonian Conservation Apr21-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Tampa Florida FishConservation Aug20-24 . . . . . . . . 15
Toulouse EvolutionFamily Jun1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
WashingtonDC BioGenomics Feb21 FirstDayRegist 16
Austin SMBE Jul2-6
AbstractsExtFeb15
SMBE 2017 Abstract Deadline Extended
View this email in your browser http://mci-
group.us14.list-manage1.com/track/click?u=-
8f41f38197339eb69a8a6daa2&id=a29d08218c&e=-
21532bf94c ** SMBE 2017 jAbstracts Extended to
15th February
By popular request, we have extended the abstract sub-
mission and award applications deadline for the Annual
Meeting of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolu-
tion (SMBE) 2017 to Wednesday, February 15, 11:59PM
(GMT).
We would also like you to know that the organizers of
SMBE 2017 (http://mci-group.us14.list-manage.com/-track/click?u=8f41f38197339eb69a8a6daa2&id=-
ccb77ef7&e=21532bf94c) are aware of and monitoring
the unprecedented travel restrictions recently imposed
for a 90-day period by executive order in the USA. We
are working on accommodations, such as the option
for making posters and slides available online, and we
encourage scientists from the aected nationalities to
contact us at SMBE2017@mci-group.com.
We would like to emphasize that (1) SMBE has always
been a very international society and is a leader in pro-
moting diversity among its membership and meeting
attendees, and (2) Austin, in particular, is an inclusive
and liberal city that welcomes people from around the
world. We are looking forward to welcoming you to
Austin in July!
Submit Abstracts Here http://mci-
group.us14.list-manage.com/track/click?u=-
8f41f38197339eb69a8a6daa2&id=d5d9121c70&e=-
21532bf94c SMBE 2017 <SMBE2017@mci-group.com >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 3
Austin SMBE Jul2-6
UndergradTravelMentorAwards
SMBE Undergraduate Travel and Mentoring Awards
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution of-
fers travel awards for undergraduate students to at-
tend their annual meeting, this year in Austin,Texas
(www.smbe2017.org/). Awardees will receive 1500-2000
USD ( $) toward travel and registration fees (amount
depends on your geographical location). You will also
be assigned a mentor at the meeting to advise you and
to introduce you to potential collaborators, PhD super-
visors, etc. You will also participate in the meeting's
poster session with a poster you will prepare on your
research.
In order to apply, you need to prepare the following:
1. an abstract describing your research ( <250 words)
2. a short explanation of why you want to attend this
meeting (<250 words) 3. a short letter of support from
your academic supervisor ( <250 words)
Applications should be made through the SMBE
abstract submission system at www.smbe2017.org/-
abstracts/ . You can nd more information on the
travel awards at /www.smbe.org/smbe/AWARDS/-
UndergraduateTravelandMentoringAward.aspx or send
an email to Sandra Baldauf (sandra.baldauf@ebc.uu.se)
or Joanna Masel (masel@email.arizona.edu).
The deadline for submission is 15 February 2017.
Sandra Baldauf <sandra.baldauf@ebc.uu.se >
FortWorth Texas EvolutionPlants
Jun24-28 TravelAwards
We are happy to announce the PLANTS undergraduate
travel awards to the BOTANY 2017 meetings June 24-
28, 2017 in Fort Worth, Texas. The PLANTS program
(funded by the NSF and Botanical Society of America)
encourages the participation of undergraduates from
underrepresented groups at the annual meetings of the
BSA and aliated organizations.
The goal of the program is to increase the diversity
of future professionals interested in the plant sciences.These meetings focus on all aspects of the botanical
sciences and include areas such as genomics, evolution,
climate change, ecology, conservation, systematics, pale-
obotany, physiology, and ethnobotany. The PLANTS
program will fund up to 12 undergraduates annually to
participate in the meetings.
Students attend career oriented events and receive men-
toring from both a junior (advanced undergrad and
graduate students) and a senior mentor (postdocs, fac-
ulty, and other professionals) as they attend scientic
sessions and networking events together. The program
covers the normal costs of travel, registration, food and
accommodation at the meeting.
Applications are accepted through MARCH 1, 2017 at
http://www.botany.org/Awards/F PLANTS.php Ap-
plicants will be asked to provide a one page statement
of academic interests and career goals and relevance
of the BSA meetings to these goals, and one letter of
recommendation. The letter of reference should indicate
the student's level of interest in the plant sciences and
how inclusion of the student will increase the diversity
of the PLANTS participants. Applicants must be un-
dergraduates who are registered or recently graduated
(i.e., within the last 12 months) from U.S.
institutions, including Puerto Rico, and traveling to the
meeting from within the U.S. Students demonstrating
a need for funds to attend BSA will be given pref-
erence, and will be selected so that the group as a
whole will maximize diversity among undergraduates
at the meetings. For questions, please contact Heather
Cacanindin (hcacanindin@botany.org), Anna Monls
(mon1ak@cmich.edu), or Ann Sakai (aksakai@uci.edu).
\aksakai@uci.edu" <aksakai@uci.edu >
Gothenburg SEB
PalaeogenomicAncientDNA Jul3-6
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to draw your attention to the Palaeoge-
nomic and Ancient DNA session being held at this
years SEB meeting in Gothenburg, Sweden from the 3rd
- 6th July. https://www.sebiology.org/events/event/-
seb-gothenburg/programme/cell-biology#dna This ses-
sion (5 and 6 July) will investigate the latest research
in palaeogenomics. As samples are obtained from di-
verse sources, ranging from sediments, permafrost, teeth,
bones and preserved plant material, we will also cover4 EvolDir March 1, 2017
the challenges that arise when working with these sam-
ples and introduce new techniques which have been
employed to enhance the extraction and analysis of
ancient DNA samples.
Speakers include:
- Prof Michael Hofreiter (Universit at Potsdam, Germany)
- Sequencing and computational challenges in the anal-
ysis of ancient DNA - Prof Terry Brown (University
of Manchester, UK) - Using palaeogenomic approaches
with plant remains. - Prof Ludovic Orlando (Natural
History Museum of Denmark) - Novel bioinformatic
techniques in palaeogenomics - Prof Inger Alsos Greve
(Troms University Museum, Norway) - Flora recon-
struction using metabarcoding from ancient sediments -
Dr Helena Malmstr om (Uppsala University, Sweden) -
Population genomics of hunter-gatherers and farmers in
Scandinavia - Dr Mikkel Pedersen (Natural History Mu-
seum of Denmark) - Paleo- environmental reconstruction
using ancient DNA from lake sediments
Abstract submission is now open https://-
www.sebiology.org/events/event/seb-gothenburg/-
abstract and we invite you to submit an abstract for
either oral or poster presentation (deadline 21 April
2017).
The SEB oers generous travel grants to support stu-
dent and early career scientist members to attend the
meeting https://www.sebiology.org/events/event/seb-
gothenburg/travel-grants We look forward to seeing
you in Gothenburg
Laura Parducci Richard Tennant John Love
Laura Parducci Plant Ecology/ Dept of Ecology and Ge-
netics Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala University
Norbyv agen 18 D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden
Oce: EBC, House 7, oor 2 e-mail:
laura.parducci@ebc.uu.se phone: +46-18-471 6414
www.ieg.uu.se/plant/research-groups/ www.laurap.it
@lauparducci
Laura Parducci <lapar168@me.com >
Groningen EvolutionMedicine
Aug18-21 AbstractsDueFeb15
The 2017 International Society for Evolution, Medicine
& Public Health (ISEMPH) annual meeting will be in
Groningen, Netherlands, on August 18-21, 2017, in con-
junction with the European Society for EvolutionaryBiology (ESEB).
February 15 is the deadline for submitting abstracts
and the opening date for early bird discounted reg-
istration. Full meeting information and the link
to submit your abstract are at the Society's web-
site. https://evolutionarymedicine.org/2017-isemph-
meeting/ Keynote speakers include Mervyn Singer
(UK), Sylvia Cremer (Austria), Francisco ~Abeda (UK),
Peer Bork (Germany) and Jonathan Wells (UK), and
for the overlapping part of the two meetings, Svante
P a abo (Germany), Linda Partridge (UK) and Stephen
Stearns (USA). In addition to these stellar talks, paper
sessions and poster sessions, the program committee,
led by Frank R uhli and Nicole Bender, is planning di-
verse activities including workshops, round tables and
social events to foster networking with international
colleagues. They welcome comments and suggestions
sent to program@evolutionarymedicine.org.
ISEMPH members get a considerable discount on reg-
istration fees, and a further 20% discount is oered to
those who register for both ISEMPH and the ESEB
meeting. For full details see the Society's website.
http://evoutionarymedicine.org rmnesse@gmail.com
Harpenden UK InsectGenomics
May16 Registration
Dear colleagues,
The registration is opened for the /Insect Genomics
Special Interest Group meeting/ of the /Royal Entomo-
logical Society/. It will take place on the 16th of May
2017 at Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, UK. The
registration fee is 15 to cover for lunch, tea/coee and
a drink reception during the poster session at the end
of the meeting.
Please, note that the deadline for abstract submission is
the 16th of March 2017 and for registration is the 2nd
of May 2017.
The development of the new sequencing technologies has
placed the eld of genomics at the heart of biological re-
search. Many genomes have already been published and
many more are being generated. This abundance of ge-
nomic data is proving to be fundamental to a wide range
of research areas including functional genomics, the evo-
lution of diversity and insect management.The purpose
of this meeting is to discuss the latest developments in
the eld of genomics and how they are being appliedMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 5
in entomology. We will bring together researchers with
dierent backgrounds to promote the exchange of ideas
and explore collaborations that can further advance
insect science.
We welcome presentations from researchers at all stages
of their careers working on insect genomics and the
development of bioinformatics tools, as well as from
those applying these methods to study questions rang-
ing from insect ecology and evolution to management
and control.
We are really excited to have Nicola Nadeau (University
of Sheeld), Chris Bass (Unversity of Exeter) and Luke
Alphey (The Pirbright Institute) as invited speakers.
For further details and registration form visit:
http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/insect-genomics-
special-interest-group-meeting-16th-may-2017 or send
us an e-mail.
Ramiro Morales-Hojas - ramiro.morales-
hojas@rothamsted.ac.uk
Martin Williamson - mar-
tin.williamson@rothamsted.ac.uk
{
Dr. Ramiro Morales-Hojas Molecular Ecologist / En-
tomologist Rothamsted Insect Survey Agroecology De-
partment
e-mail: ramiro.morales-hojas@rothamsted.ac.uk;
r.moraleshojas@gmail.com web-site: https://-
sites.google.com/site/ramiromoraleshojas/ web-
site: http://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/insect-survey
r.moraleshojas@gmail.com
Honolulu
HistoryOfPacicMarineLife
May23-25 Deadline
Dear All
Just a reminder that the abstract submissions for the
GSA 2017 113 ^th Annual meeting is still open. The
meeting will be held at the Hawaiian Convention Center
(https://www.meethawaii.com/ convention-center/) in
Honolulu. Abstract fees are $18/students and $30/oth-
ers. The session details are outlined below.
Abstract Submission Deadline: 14 ^th February 2017
Student travel grants and registration waivers are avail-able.
Theme Session T22: Cenozoic Paleoecology, Paleogeog-
raphy, and Evolutionary History of Pacic Marine Life
https://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2017CD/top/index.epl
This session will focus on all environmental and
evolutionary aspects of the Cenozoic (66-0 Ma) history
of marine life in the Pacic Ocean at all temporal
and spatial scales. It will include studies employing
evidence from paleoceanography as well as studies
employing evidence from the modern fauna. Of
particular interest are studies on the phylogeny of
major taxa, paleoecological or evolutionary adaptations
in a changing marine environment, and the inuence
of changes in seawater chemistry and temperature
throughout the Cenozoic. Among other things, we
welcome studies that include the reconstruction of
the history or coral reef or molluscan communities.
Paleobotany, molecular studies, and micropaleontology
are all meant to be included.
Registration and abstract submission:
https://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2017CD/-
top/papers/index.cgi? session-
idB156&username)1968&password67139
23-25 May 2017 - Honolulu, Hawai'i USA
Hawai'i Convention Center, Honolulu, Hawai'i
Important Deadlines
Abstracts Submission 14 February
Early Registration 17 April
Student Travel Application 17 April
Student Volunteer for Registration Waiver 17 April
Registration Cancellation 24 April
Hotel Reservation Rate 1 May
Please contact Steve or Sonia for further details about
this session:
Principal organizer: Dr. Steven M. Stanley,
stevenst@hawaii,edu
Co-organizer Dr. Sonia J. Rowley, srowley@hawaii,edu
Aloha
Sonia J. Rowley PhD Postdoctoral Research Fellow Uni-
versity of Hawai'i at Manoa POST 713, 1680 East-West
Road Honolulu, HI 96822 +1 808 348 6224 Research
Aliate - Bishop Museum Chief Science Ocer - Assoc.
Marine Exploration
Sonia Rowley <srowley@hawaii.edu >6 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Idaho Moscow
AmericanSocMammalogists
Jun20-24
Ninety-Seventh Meeting of the AMERICAN SOCIETY
OF MAMMALOGISTS 20-24 June 2017 University of
Idaho ^A' Moscow
This year ^A1s meeting will oer an exciting program
with three workshops, three symposia, and two plenary
sessions, in addition to the diversity of high-quality con-
tributed papers and posters. Workshops will provide
training in the program ^A3R^A2, ways to increase your
Broader Impacts, and writing an eective DDIG pro-
posal. Symposia will include current topics in Climate
Change, Large Mammal Ecophysiology, and Genomics.
The two plenary sessions will feature student Honoraria
and Fellowship recipients and the 2016 recipients of
the ASM Grinnell, Leopold, and Merriam Awards ^ADrs.
Joseph Cook, Marco Festa-Bianchet, and Joel Brown.
And we are honored to have Dr. Kay Holekamp, a
previous Merriam awardee, as our capstone speaker,
presenting her life ^A1s work on hyena ecology and be-
havior.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION OPENS TODAY!!! Share
your research with hundreds of mammalogists from
around the world. Submit your abstract for an oral
presentation or poster for ASM 2017! Abstract submis-
sions will open on February 15, 2017 and close on March
31, 2017 at 11:59 pm (Central Daylight Time). The
deadline for presenters seeking Travel Awards is March
15th at 11:59 pm (Central Daylight Time). For more
information about ASM Travel Awards see the ASM
website (http://www.mammalsociety.org/committees/-
honoraria-and-travel-awards#tab4).
All presenters MUST register and submit full payment
for the conference prior to submitting their abstract.
The abstract submission link will be found in the email
conrmation immediately following payment. However,
please allow enough time for the automated registration
system to process your payment to meet the submis-
sion deadline. An abstract will not be accepted for the
program until the presenting author has registered and
paid in full.
REGISTER FOR THE CONFERENCE Registration
is now open for ASM 2017! Register online (https://-
asm.wildapricot.org/event-2367009/Registration) now!Contact Christy Classi (cclassi@mammalsociety.org) for
assistance. Regular registration ends March 31st!!!
For those also considering the Evolution meeting in
nearby Portland, why choose? ASM 2017 is providing
a low-cost transportation option to allow attendance
at both meetings. For $50, ASM 2017 attendees can
take a charter bus from Moscow to Portland on Friday,
June 24th, arriving just in time for evening festivities at
Evolution 2017. This option is available during registra-
tion. The bus is partially sponsored by RTLGenomics
(http://rtlgenomics.com).
RESERVE YOUR ROOM AND MAKE TRAVEL
PLANS FOR ASM 2017 Housing: A variety of hous-
ing options are available this year, including campus
dorm housing. Reservations should be made before
the end of May for most housing options. Be sure
to reference the American Society of Mammalogists
to receive the conference group rate at the meeting
hotels. Check out the meeting travel page (http://-
www.mammalmeetings.org/travel/) for more informa-
tion!
Transportation: You have multiple options when travel-
ing to Moscow, Idaho. The three closest airports to the
Moscow area are the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport,
the Lewiston-Nez Perce County Regional Airport, and
the Spokane International Airport. Each airport oers
various car rental options. There also are several op-
tions for travel from each airport to the hotels ranging
from taxis and shuttles to public transportation. To
research the method that best suits you, please visit
each airport ^A1s website. Moscow also is serviced by
Greyhound and Amtrak.
For more information, visit the ASM meeting website
(http://www.mammalmeetings.org/).
Contact Info: Tony Ballard Kansas State Global Cam-
pus Phone: 785-532-2402 Email: tballard@k-state.edu
Cody Thompson <mammal.meetings@gmail.com >
IowaStateU AGA EvolQuantGenet
Jun1-3
Save early June for the AGA Quantitative Genetics
Symposium!
Each year, AGA symposia bring together 80-100 partic-
ipants in a relaxed and collegial setting to share ideas
on genetic and genomic research topics.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 7
This year's meeting is AGA2017: volutionary Quantita-
tive Genetics IN THE WILD. Hosted by AGA President
Anne Bronikowski, it will be held June 1st through June
3rd on the campus of Iowa State University. The open-
ing reception will be in the beautiful Reiman Gardens
and Buttery House: http://www.reimangardens.com/
Visit the AGA website at http://www.theaga.org Reg-
istration and student award details will open in early
March.
CONFIRMD SPEAKERS:
AGA Key Distinguished Lecture - Anne Charmantier,
Centre d'cologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CEFE),
Montpellier, France
David Coltman, University of Alberta, Canada
Je Conner, Michigan State University
Lynda Delph, University of Indiana
Ned Dochtermann, North Dakota State University
Lucia Gutierrez, University of Wisconsin
Fred Janzen, Iowa State University
Adam Jones, Texas A & M University
mily Josephs, University of California, Davis
Andrew McAdam, University of Guelph, Canada
Joel McGlothlin, Virgina Technical Institute
Mike Morrissey, St Andrews University, UK
Thomas Reed, University College, Cork, Ireland
Max Rothschild, Iowa State University
Julia Saltz, Rice University
Cynthia Weinig, University of Wyoming
Jason Wolf, University of Bath, UK
Anjanette Baker
AGA Manager
AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu
JohnInnesCentre UK
PlantEvolution Jul24-26
New Phytologist next generation scientists 2017
24-26 July 2017 John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK
https://newphytologist.org/nextgensci The New Phy-
tologist Trust is excited to invite you to the second nextgeneration scientists event. Next generation scientists
2017 is an event aimed exclusively at early career re-
searchers (PhD students and post-docs with up to ve
years' experience since gaining their PhD).
It will provide an opportunity for early career plant
scientists to present research, and network with their
peers in a supportive and inspiring environment. In
addition to presentations from early career researchers,
there will be a series of plenary lectures from outstand-
ing international plant scientists, talks by the 2014 and
2015 Tansley Medal winners Bill Anderegg and Alexan-
der Jones, and workshops on getting published and
publication ethics.
Registration is free and includes meals, accommodation
and a social event. Some assistance with the cost of
travel to the meeting will also be provided. Places are
limited, so please register early!
Application deadline: 27 April 2017
Full details and registration at https://-
newphytologist.org/nextgensci #NPNextGen
Dr Mike Whiteld Development Coordinator, New Phy-
tologist ||||||| New Phytologist Central Oce,
Bailrigg House, Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1
4YE, UK Tel: + 44 1524 592839; Fax: + 44 1524 594696
www.newphytologist.org| Twitter: @NewPhyt| Face-
book: fb.com/NewPhytologist
The New Phytologist Trust, registered charity number
1154867
2015 Impact factor 7.21
New Phytologist Symposia 2017 Trait covariation //
Plant epigenetics
New Phytologist next generation scientists 2017 A meet-
ing exclusively for early career researchers. Register
now!
m.whiteld@lancaster.ac.uk
London WildlifeConservation Mar14
Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park, London
NW1 4RY, UK; Tuesday 14 March 2017; 18:00-21:00
Immigrants to the rescue! How can immigration help
save threatened wildlife populations?
Speakers: Richard Frankham; Mike Bruford; Jane Reid
Threatened species have invariably small and frequently8 EvolDir March 1, 2017
isolated populations, and are thus characterized by in-
creased inbreeding and depleted genetic variation. In-
creased inbreeding could lead to a reduction in reproduc-
tion and survival (inbreeding depression), which causes
an immediate risk of extinction. Depleted genetic varia-
tion could compromise the ability of a species to adapt
to an ever-changing environment, threatening its long-
term survival. How to mitigate these adverse eects of
small populations, and maintain a threatened species
for short- and long-term survival, is a major task for
conservation science. Supplementing genetically impov-
erished populations with external unrelated individuals
(immigrants) can be a valuable strategy to counteract
the negative eects of isolation. This 'genetic rescue'
eect occurs because the addition of unrelated genomes
increases diversity in the recipient population, reducing
inbreeding and inbreeding depression. Genetic rescue
has the added benet of increasing population size and
larger populations are less vulnerable to random events,
such as a natural disaster or disease outbreak. Despite
the potential benets of genetic rescue for the manage-
ment of threatened species, there have been fewer than
twenty published studies of genetic rescue/restoration
for conservation purposes. Why has there been such a
low uptake?
The speakers will describe the hurdles, and illustrate
how genetic rescue can be expedited through rein-
troduction and conservation programmes. Free and
open to all https://www.zsl.org/science/whats-on/-
immigrants-to-the-rescue-how-can-immigration-help-
save-threatened-wildlife The Zoological Society of
London is incorporated by Royal Charter Principal Of-
ce England. Company Number RC000749 Registered
address: Regent's Park, London, England NW1 4RY
Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 208728
Linda DaVolls <linda.davolls@zsl.org >
Lyon AI EvolutionaryDynamics
Sep4-8
* CALL FOR PAPERS *
ECAL 2017 - 14th EUROPEAN CONFERENCE ON
ARTIFICIAL LIFE
\Articial Life and the scientic method: Create, play,
experiment, discover"
https://project.inria.fr/ecal2017/ The ECAL 2017 Or-
ganizing Committee would like to cordially invite youto submit your work to the 14th European Conference
on Articial Life (ECAL 2017), taking place on the Ly-
onTech Campus in Lyon, France, 4-8 September 2017.
* I M P O R T A N T D A T E S *
Paper submission deadline: 9th April, 2017 Notication
of Acceptance: 12th May, 2017 Camera-Ready due: 9th
June, 2017 Main Conference convenes: 4-8 September,
2017
Contact email for queries: ecal2017@inria.fr
* T O P I C S *
ECAL 2017 will showcase a wide range of topics in Ar-
ticial Life, bringing together world-leading researchers
to discuss the latest advances in the synthesis and sim-
ulation of living systems. We are happy to announce
that our keynote speakers cover a wide variety of topics
and include:
- Bill Sellers (University of Manchester, UK): Recon-
structing Ancient Life using Virtual Robots - Csaba Pal
(Biological Research Centre, Szeged, Hungary): Com-
plex adaptations in evolution - Frances Westall (CNRS,
Orleans, France): Origin of life and Life on Mars - Nancy
Nersessian (Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA):
Managing Complexity: Modeling dynamics in integra-
tive systems biology - Philippe Faure (Universite Pierre
et Marie Curie, Paris, France): Drug addiction and
alteration of decision making process - Sabine Hauert
(University of Bristol, UK): Swarming nanomedicine
For this edition the special theme is \Articial life and
the scientic method: Create, play, experiment, dis-
cover". We are inviting especially contributions that
investigate the use of computer simulations in the scien-
tic method, and/or the interactions between in silico,
in vitro and in vivo experiments. Other topics of interest
include, but are not limited to, the following aspects of
Articial Life:
- Evolutionary dynamics - Ecological and social dy-
namics - Articial chemistry, origins of life - Compu-
tational cellular biology/physiology/systems biology -
Self-replication, self-repair and morphogenesis - Bio-
inspired, cognitive and evolutionary robotics - Percep-
tion, cognition and behavior - Evolution of language,
computational linguistics - Embodied, interactive sys-
tems - Collective dynamics of swarms - Complex dy-
namical systems and networks - Cellular automata and
discrete dynamical systems - Economy/society/social
media as living systems - Computational humani-
ties/anthropology/archeology - Methodologies and tools
for articial life - Interactions between in silico/in
vitro/in vivo experiments - Philosophical, epistemolog-
ical and ethical issues - Articial life and education -March 1, 2017 EvolDir 9
Articial life-based art - Applications of articial life -
Living technologies
* S U B M I S S I O N F O R M A T *
There are two options for submission: either full paper
or extended abstract. Note that the format is exactly
the same for both options. The dierences reside in the
number of pages and type of contents:
- Full papers have an 8-page maximum length and should
report on new, unpublished work. - Extended abstracts
are limited to a 2-page length and can report on previ-
ously published work.
We encourage the use of LaTeX for the production of
papers. Guidelines for submission and template les
can be found here: http://project.inria.fr/ecal2017/-
submission-guidelines/ < http://project.inria.fr/-
ecal2017/submission-guidelines/ >Color gures are
possible. Each submission should be uploaded as a
single le, in PDF format only, to the Easy Chair sys-
tem: https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ecal2017
<https://easychair.org/ conferences/?conf ~A2017>
All submissions will undergo a detailed peer review pro-
cess. Full papers will be reviewed for relevance, scientic
quality, sound methodology and use of appropriate anal-
ysis techniques. Abstracts will be reviewed for relevance
and quality.
Both papers and extended abstracts will be considered
for oral or poster presentation, without distinction be-
tween full papers and extended abstracts.
Accepted papers and extended abstracts will be pub-
lished by MIT Press as open-access electronic proceed-
ings.
Note: At least one author of every accepted paper or
poster must be registered 30 days prior to the conference,
or the paper/poster will be withdrawn.
Note: Workshop papers are managed separately from
the main conference. To submit a paper to a work-
shop, go to its own website, which will be listed in the
Workshops page.
* ORGANISING COMMITTEE *
Dr Carole Knibbe (Scientic Chair, Universite Lyon 1)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMoscow InvertebrateEvol Aug18-23
Topic: Moscow. 4 ^th International Meeting on Inverte-
brates. August 18-23.
Dear Evolutionary Biologists!
On behalf of The International Society for Invertebrate
Morphology, Lomonosov Moscow State University, The
Paleontological Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences
and The ICIM4 Organizing Committee, we cordially in-
vite you to attend the 4th International Congress on
Invertebrate Morphology (ICIM4) to be held in August
18-23, 2017 in Moscow, Russia.
The Congress, which is the premier international gath-
ering of researchers in the eld of the morphology of
invertebrates, will be hosted by Lomonosov Moscow
State University. The main focus of the 4th Congress
will be among others on evolutionary developmental
biology; the problem of miniaturization and the evolu-
tion of larval forms. Special attention will be paid to
modern approaches and methods of morphological and
evolutionary studies.
You can nd a preliminary list of the scientic symposia
(included but not limited to) at http://www.icim4.com/-
symposia-structure to be chosen according to your in-
terests.
TO REGISTER please follow the link http://-
www.icim4.com/registration . The early-bird registra-
tion fee rates are available until February 28, 2017.
The abstract submission is open until April 30, 2017.
To submit an abstract please follow the link http://-
www.icim4.com/abstracts For more information on the
Congress please visit the ocial website of the ICIM4 at
www.icim4.com We would also like to invite those of you
who might be interested to be a Sponsor or an Informa-
tion Partner of the Congress. For Sponsorship please see
the link http://www.icim4.com/sponsors-exhibitors and
for Information Partnership please contact the Technical
Secretariat at icim4@mkcongress.ru .
Please do not hesitate to contact congress organizers
and our organizing committee with any concerns or
questions:
E-mail: icim4.org@gmail.com (for program, papers and
other science-related questions and issues)
E-mail: icim4@mkcongress.ru (for registration, pay-10 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ments, excursions, pre- and post-congress tours, ac-
commodation and other service-related questions and
issues)
Looking forward to seeing you in Moscow!
Technical Secretariat of the 4th International Congress
on Invertebrate Morphology
MKC LLC Moscow, Russia
Phone: +7 (495) 726 5135
e-mail: icim4@mkcongress.ru
http://www.icim4.com/ { Thank you and best regards,
Yana Syskova ICIM4, Technical Secretariat \MKC"
LLC Moscow, Russia Phone: +7 (495) 726 5135
icim4@mkcongress.ru www.icim4.com \ICIM4, Techni-
cal secretariat" <icim4@mkcongress.ru >
MountainLakeBioStn WaltonLecture
Announcing the 2017 Walton Lecture at MLBS View
this email in your browser (http://us14.campaign-
archive2.com/?u=3D90dd2397558126f5ceb0c7824&id=-
a603a995d8&e=eb61b7c3d8)
Dear Biologists and Friends of Mountain Lake,
You are cordially invited to the annual Walton Lecture
at Mountain Lake Biological Station.
The ecological context of local adaptation: Deciphering
cause and eect presented by Joseph Travis Biological
Science, Florida State University Lewis Hall Auditorium
Thursday June 15, 8:00 p.m.
Joe's research is focused on variation among local popu-
lations of the same species, which represents the earliest
stage in the adaptive generation of biodiversity. Keep
reading... (http://www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-travis.php)
The lecture will be followed by a reception in the Direc-
tor's Cottage. Joe will be in residence at MLBS for a
few days around the lecture.
If you need to spend the night, or join us for a meal,
please contact the Station as soon as possible at (540)
626-7196, mlbs@virginia.edu or submit a housing request
on line (http://mlbs.virginia.edu/planvisit) . Housing
space is limited.
Please distribute this announcement (http://-
mlbs.virginia.edu/Walton2017) to students or colleagues
you think might be interested. Thank you!We hope you will join us on June 15th!
Directions to the Station (http://mlbs.virginia.edu/-
travel)
Copyright ^A ©2017 Mountain Lake Biological Station,
All rights reserved.
Our mailing address is: Mountain Lake Biological
Station University of Virginia PO Box 400327 Char-
lottesville, Va 22904 USA
Mountain Lake Biological Station <mlbs@virginia.edu >
Paris Holobionts Apr19-21
RegistrationExt
Dear colleagues,
Registration for the International Conference on Holo-
bionts, Paris April 19-21, 2017 is extended to Feb. 15th.
For more information and details about this event,
please visit the conference website at https://-
symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017/ .Please, do not
hesitate to diuse this announcement to interested col-
leagues. Thanks. Best regards
Jean-Christophe SIMON
Please note my new email address: jean-
christophe.simon@inra.fr
Jean-Christophe SIMON UMR 1349 INRA/Agrocampus
Ouest/Universit e Rennes 1 Institut de G en etique, Envi-
ronnement et Protection des Plantes (IGEPP) Domaine
de la Motte - 35653 Le Rheu Cedex - France
phone: +33 (0)2 23 48 51 54 fax: 33 (0)2 23 48 51 50 web
site IGEPP : http://www6.rennes.inra.fr/igepp Jean-
Christophe Simon <jean-christophe.simon@inra.fr >
Peterborough Canada
WildlifeConservation May1-4
Wildlife 70: a symposium on long-term research.
The symposium will be held during 1-4 May 2017 in Pe-
terborough, Ontario. The co-hosts are Trent University,
Wildlife Conservation Society Canada, and the OntarioMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 11
Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry. The sym-
posium is about the importance of long-term ecological
research in Canada.We are fortunate that Charles Krebs
and Marco Festa-Bianchet have agreed to be keynote
speakers, and we have also arranged a moderated panel
discussion between Bob Wayne and Brad White on the
nature of eastern wolves.
It will be a fun and interesting meeting. Registration
has opened, and we are still accepting abstracts for
poster presentations. More details, including some pre-
liminary program information, can be seen here https:/-
/www.wildlife70.com. There is a great lineup of invited
speakers. Please share with any colleagues and students
who may be interested.
\Je.Bowman@ontario.ca" <Je.Bowman@ontario.ca >
Philadelphia EPiC Evolution Apr15
The Philadelphia Evolution Group is excited to an-
nounce
EPiC -Evolution in Philadelphia Conference.
*Details:* Saturday, April 15, 2017
*Time:* 9:30am-7pm
*Location:* Levin building, 425 S University Ave
Philadelphia PA 19104
*More information:* https://-
philadelphiaevolut.wixsite.com/epic < https://-
t.co/vHEv059dwy >
*Presentation submission deadline:* March 20, 2017
*Registration deadline*: April 10, 2017
*Cost:* Free*
*Description:* This conference aims to bring together
early career researchers from the greater Philadelphia
area sharing similar interests in understanding complex
biological relationships that inform ecological and evo-
lutionary processes. The topics covered will be broad
in scope and will address questions in areas such as
genome evolution, speciation and adaptation, the ge-
netic basis of phenotypic evolution, microbiomes and
symbiosis, and organismal response to changing environ-
ments. The conference will provide graduate students
and postdocs the opportunity to present their research
to their peers and hopefully this will serve as a forum
to receive useful feedback from senior-level researchers.
We hope to build lasting research relationships and col-laborations among researchers with similar interests in
the broader Philadelphia area. Breakfast, lunch and an
evening reception will be served.
*Schedule:*
- ASN Opening Plenary: Dr. Mary Caswell Stoddard,
Princeton University
- Three sessions of oral presentations
- GSA Closing Plenary: Dr. Sarah Sander Lower, Cor-
nell University
- Poster reception
There will be *cash prizes* for best student talk and
poster sponsored by the American Society of Naturalists
*This conference is available free of charge because of
our generous sponsors:
- American Society of Naturalists Regional Conference
Award
- Genetics Society of America Trainee-Organized Sym-
posia
We hope you will join us, it's going to be *EPiC*!
*Emily L Behrman* Ph.D. Candidate Schmidt Lab De-
partment of Biology University of Pennsylvania 433 S
University Ave Philadelphia, PA 19104
Bemily@sas.upenn.edu http://www.emily-behrman.com
Emily L Behrman <bemily@sas.upenn.edu >
Porquerolles France
MathCompEvolBiol Jun12-16
MCEB - Mathematical and Computational Evolution-
ary Biology, 12-16 June 2017 Porquerolles Island, South
of France.
Pre-registration deadline extended to March 6th 2017
Using the web site: http://www.lirmm.fr/mceb2017/
Notication to applicants: March 17th
Final list of attendees: April 17th
Scope: Mathematical and computational tools and con-
cepts form an essential basis for modern evolutionary
studies. The goal of the MCEB conference (at its 9th
edition) is to bring together scientists with diverse back-
grounds to present recent advances and discuss open
problems in the eld of mathematical and computa-
tional evolutionary biology. The theme of this year's
edition will be \Methods for integrative evolutionary12 EvolDir March 1, 2017
biology: various sources of data, various scales of evo-
lution", which includes the analysis of heterogeneous
data (molecular, phenotypic, ecological...), dierent time
scales (from recent times to the origin of life), dier-
ent spatial scales (from local to worldwide range), the
combination of phylogenetics and population genetics,
multidisciplinary approaches, etc.. General concepts,
models, methods and algorithms will also be presented
and discussed, just as during the previous conference
editions.
Cost: Conference fees including accommodation for four
nights, meals, coee breaks, etc., will be around 450
euros, all inclusive. PhD students and postdocs would
benet of nancial support.
Keynote speakers:
- Elizabeth Allman (Department of Mathematics and
Statistics, University of Alaska Fairbanks)
- Guy Baele (Rega Institute / KU Leuven - Evolutionary
and Computational Virology Section)
- Stephane Dray (Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie
Evolutive (LBBE), Lyon)
- Barbara Holland (Theoretical Phylogenetics Group,
School of Mathematics and Physics, University of Tas-
mania)
- Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution, University of Bern)
- Yun Song (Calabi-Simons Chair in Mathematics and
Biology, Departments of Mathematics and Biology, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania)
- Marc Suchard (David Geen School of Medicine at
UCLA, Departments of Biomathematics, Biostatistics
and Human Genetics)
Olivier GASCUEL <olivier.gascuel@pasteur.fr >
Portland Oregon JoeFelsenstein
Jun22
Subject: JoeFest: Satellite symposium at the 2017
SSE/ASN/SSB meeting held in honor of Joe Felsen-
stein
A one-day symposium will be held on Thursday, June 22,
2017 at the Oregon Convention Center in honor of Joe
Felsenstein and his many contributions to population
genetics, evolutionary theory and phylogenetics. The
list of speakers and information about registration canbe obtained here, http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/-
pre-conference-workshops{satellite-events.html . Mont-
gomery SLATKIN <slatkin@berkeley.edu >
Portland OR Evolution2017
Jun23-27
EVOLUTION 2017 { Annual joint meeting of the
ASN/SSB/SSE June 23-27, Oregon Convention Cen-
ter in Portland, OR http://www.evolutionmeetings.org
Main conference registration is now OPEN! Talk &
poster submission is also OPEN. Talks will be accepted
until May 20 or until capacity is reached, WHICHEVER
IS EARLIER.
Hotel and dorm accommodation is also OPEN.
Answers to just about ANY question you may have
about the conference can be found on the meeting
website: http://www.evolutionmeetings.org/evolution-
2017|portland-oregon.html APR. 15 IS AN IMPOR-
TANT DATE - Early registration discount ends - Appli-
cations for ASN and SSE student/pdf travel grants close
- Applications to volunteer at the conference in return
for 100% rebate on early registration fees close - Applica-
tions for Mayr and Hamilton awards close. ***Eligible
students wanting to apply should register for a regular
talk ASAP as these may ll prior to Apr. 15 (you can
edit your talk details later)***
OTHER INFORMATION - Consider giving a poster;
our poster invite app will allow you to invite up to
3 attendees of your choice to come view it. This can
dramatically change the relative value of a poster com-
pared to a talk - Check out our new Spotlight Ses-
sions and consider applying to speak in one (http:/-
/www.evolutionmeetings.org/spotlight-sessions.html) -
Professional childcare for children ages 6 months - 12
years available on-site at the Oregon Convention Center.
See conference website for more details and to book.
- There are MANY optional events before and during
the conference. Some required pre-registration. Details
on the website. - Sponsor/exhibitor registration is also
open.
hrundle@uottawa.caMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 13
Portland SSE GeneticTransmission
Jun23-27
Dear Evolutionary Biology Community,
Sign up to give a lightning talk in a \Spotlight Session"
at the 2017 Evolution Meetings in Portland, Oregon!
Spotlight Session { \Genetic transmission at the popu-
lation level"
The transmission of genes between parents and ospring
is a critical feature of biological populations. In this
spotlight session, talks will explore the modes whereby
genes are transmitted across generations and their evolu-
tionary relevance. Topics include, but are not limited to,
meiotic drive systems, organelle and nuclear genomes,
mating systems, and genetic conict. We hope you will
join us to learn more about the intriguing diversity, evo-
lution, and macro-evolutionary consequences of genetic
transmission systems.
Invited speakers
Yaniv Brandvain, University of Minnesota. Title: TBD
Jeremiah Busch, Washington State University. Title:
TBD
Lila Fishman, University of Montana. Title: TBD
Logistical details on the session:
A Spotlight Session is a focused, 75 min. collection of
talks on a specic topic. These talks are solicited in
advance, unlike regular sessions that are assembled, of-
ten imperfectly, from the total pool of contributed talks.
Each Spotlight Session is anchored by three leading ex-
perts (each giving a 14 min talk) and rounded out with
six selected speakers (each giving a 5 min. 'lightning'
talk) pursing exciting projects in the same eld. By
having a focused session with high-prole researchers on
a specic topic, there will be high value in presenting
even a 5 min. talk as the room is likely to contain the
desired target audience as well as other relevant and
well-known speakers in the eld.
To take part:
If you want to give a lightning talk in this session, please
email me at jwbusch@wsu.edu with your title by Febru-
ary 28th! We hope to choose all of the six lightning
talks by March 3rd.
Impacts on registration, etc.: 1) If you are selected togive a talk in our Spotlight Session, you are free to
give a regular talk in another, traditional session. You
can register for another talk by the standard procedure
during the online registration process.
2) As a member of the Spotlight Session, you will attend
the meeting as normal but you will NOT register your
talk in the Spotlight Session on the website { I will take
care of this for you.
{
Jeremiah W. Busch
School of Biological Sciences
Washington State University
Pullman, WA 99164
jwbusch@wsu.edu
509-335-0086
\Jeremiah W. Busch" <jwbusch@wsu.edu >
QueensU OntEcolEvol May18-20
Where: Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
What: OE3C'17
When: May 18th-20th, 2017
Message: The Ontario Ecology and Evolution Collo-
quium 2017 (OE3C'17) call for abstracts and registration
is now open to all researchers including undergraduates,
graduate students, post doctoral fellows, and faculty.
The event focuses primarily on ecology, ethology, and
evolution, but is open to researchers in conservation bi-
ology, earth sciences, behavior, environmental sciences,
genetics, molecular and cellular biology, and psychology.
Researchers will be able to present a full 12 minute
presentation, 5 minute lightning talk, or a poster.
The three day event will include 4 plenary speakers: Dr.
Fran Bonier (Queen's University), Dr. Rowan Barrett
(McGill University), Dr. Ben Evans (McMaster Univer-
sity), and Dr. Anne Bell (Ontario Nature). It will also
include 2 breakfasts, 2 lunches, coee breaks, and social
events on Thursday and Friday nights.
For more information about OE3C'17 visit us
at www.queensu.ca/oe3c17/ or contact us at
oe3c2017@gmail.com.
We are excited to welcome researchers from all across
Ontario, Quebec and Upstate New York to Queen's!14 EvolDir March 1, 2017
{ *Dylan Sora* MSc Candidate Eckert Lab OE3C
2017 Executive Organizer Dept. of Biology
Queen's University Kingston ON dylan.sora@gmail.com
15ds28@queensu.ca
dylan.sora@gmail.com
Smithsonian BGI BioGenomics
Feb21
BioGenomics 2017
First day registration is now available for the inaugural
Global Biodiversity Genomics Conference held in Wash-
ington, D.C. 21-23 February 2017 at the Smithsonian's
National Museum of Natural History organized by the
Smithsonian Initiative on Biodiversity Genomics and
BGI. The conference will bring together thought leaders,
researchers, and academics, who are leading the charge
in applying genomic technologies to understanding life.
The Conference is one of the rst to address the transi-
tion from a scientic emphasis on human genomics to
one on global biodiversity genomics.
The rst day will feature a Keynote Address by Edward
O. Wilson, Professor Emeritus, from Harvard University
entitled: The Linnaean Renaissance.
The meeting will focus on interactions and synergies
among biodiversity researchers, computational scientists,
sequencing technologists, and software developers.
The overarching goal of BioGenomics 2017 is to increase
our knowledge of the patterns of genomic variation in
order to enhance our understanding of past and present
evolutionary processes, to interpret the functional mean-
ing of dierences among genomes of individuals and
species, to discover and document how ecosystems op-
erate, and to use this information to make predictive
management decisions about the future of life on our
planet. The Conference is focused on four basic themes:
Diversity Genomics: Origins, Diversity, and Patterns
of Life Evolutionary Genomics: Adaptation, Resilience,
and Evolutionary Novelty Ecological Genomics: Ecosys-
tem Function and Ecological Processes Conservation
Genomics: Environmental Sustainability and Conserva-
tion
The rst day will also feature:
Pamela Soltis (The Role of Whole-Genome Duplication
in Plant Evolution)Gene Robinson (Gene Regulatory Network Lability and
the Evolution of Insect Society)
Byrappa Venkatesh(Diversity of Fish Genomes)
Nancy Moran (Discovering the world of microbial sym-
biosis using genomics)
Thomas Gilbert (Palaeogenomic contributions to domes-
tication)
Harris A. Lewin (Eutherian Chromosomes in the Light
of Evolution)
May Berenbaum (Ecological genomics footprints of
plant-insect coevolution in the CYPome)
Christina Richards (Understanding mechanisms of re-
sponse to complex environmental conditions using model
and non-model plants)
Jerey Good (Climate change and the evolution of sea-
sonal camouage)
Oliver Ryder (The impact of conservation genomics on
genetic rescue of endangered species: the critical role of
viable cell collections)
Robert Wayne (The Measurement of Adaptive and Dele-
terious Variation as Goals for Conservation Genomics)
Andrew Clark (Genomic Consequences of Population
Decline in the Endangered Florida Scrub-Jay)
Registration for Day 1 or for the complete conference is
available at: http://biogenomics2017.org/ along with
other details of the conference.
Please direct questions to Warren Johnson at: contact-
biogenomics@si.e
JohnsonWE@si.edu
Smithsonian Conservation Apr21-23
EARTH OPTIMISM SUMMIT - SMITHSONIAN IN-
STITUTION April 21-23, 2017 - Washington, DC
Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center
www.earthoptimism.si.edu Join 150 speakers and 1200
thought leaders, scientists, artists, environmentalists,
and civic and business leaders to share stories of what's
working in conservation. From how to tackle species
extinction to inspiring communities to take action or
securing the future of food, we'll explore how people
around the world are making positive change for the
planet!
REGISTER ON LINE <https://www.regonline.com/-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 15
registration/Checkin.aspx?EventID=1927451 >: Early
bird registration extended to March 10, 2017. Student
registration code: EarthST (Must bring student ID
to check-in). PROGRAM & SPEAKERS <http://-
earthoptimism.si.edu/calendar/summit/ >
Summit Fees: General Admission: $650 / Early Bird
Rate: $575 Student Rate: $300 / Early Bird Student
Rate: $250
NB: Admission to the Summit includes breakfast and
lunch, bird-friendly coee sessions, and some receptions
each of the 3 days.
VIDEO COMPETITION - \CONSERVATION SUC-
CESS": Winners receive travel, lodging and registration
for the three day Summit. Grand prize winner also
receives $1000 Help celebrate Earth Optimism by
creating a 2 minute video about your own conser-
vation success story or highlighting one that needs
to be told. All videos will be posted to the Earth
Optimism You Tube channel and select videos will
be shown at the Summit. The competition is open
to undergraduate and graduate students. Visit this
link for complete details and submission instructions
<http://earthoptimism.si.edu/blogs/news/2017/02/-
02/earth-optimism-summit-announces-student-video-
competition/ >. Deadline to submit your video is
March 10th, 11:59 PM EST.
HACK A THON: Cash prizes (currently $5,000) If you
are you a hacker, coder, maker, engineer, designer, en-
trepreneur, creative thinker or tinkerer, come celebrate
Earth Optimism by creating solutions to challenging
conservation problems in front of a global audience!
Fifteen teams of 4 will compete by pitching their inno-
vative solutions & prototypes to a crowd of potential
supporters in an on-site event called Make for the Planet.
Teams will have access to problem sets two weeks be-
fore the event, access to leading conservationists and
innovators during the event, and access to equipment
on site to create prototypes and models of hardware
and/or software solutions to specic conservation prob-
lems. All participants will have full access to the Earth
Optimism Summit. Apply to participate on-line at Con-
servation X Labs Make for the Planet website <https:/-
/www.makefortheplanet.com/ >no later than March 1,
11:59 PM EST. Space and registration is limited!
SPECIAL FEATURES at EARTH OPTIMISM SUM-
MIT An Innovation Commons of exhibits showcasing
solutions. Streaming FacebookLive. Musical perfor-
mances, lm festival and networking events. Public
events in Smithsonian museums and zoo (entrance fees
may apply).
Please direct questions to ConservationCom-mons@si.edu
\Coyle, Brian J." <CoyleB@si.edu >
Tampa Florida FishConservation
Aug20-24
We are pleased to announce that we will be hosting a
Special Symposium entitled 'Optimizing connectivity
in running waters: lessons, challenges and tools' at the
forthcoming American Fisheries Society Annual Meeting
to be held in Tampa (Florida) on Aug 20-24, 2017.
This symposium will explore the problems posed by
stream fragmentation, the pressures on freshwater
ecosystems, and the need for innovative solutions to
restore river connectivity. Nearly all major world rivers
have become disconnected from the sea and this has had
a catastrophic impact on many species, including some
iconic migratory sh such as salmon or eels that have in
some cases become extinct. For example, in the Nether-
lands and Germany barriers along the River Rhine pre-
vent the migration of salmon, sturgeon and shad, while
in the Iberian Peninsula salmon has disappeared from
all but a handful of rivers. River fragmentation can
result in rapid evolution of ecotypic dierentiation and
reproductive isolation of natural sh populations, but
can also work as a measure of control of invasive species.
We propose to review lessons learned from eort to im-
prove connectivity, the challenges that lay ahead, and
the novel tools that have emerged in recent years.
The AFS meeting is one of the largest dedicated sh
conferences in the world, and covers virtually every con-
ceivable topic related to sh and sheries, typically with
many sessions running in parallel, see here https://-
afsannualmeeting.sheries.org/ If you are interested in
presenting a talk or poster at the Symposium, you need
to:
1. Send us a title and author list by March 10th
2. Submit an abstract by March 17. See https://-
afs.confex.com/afs/2017/cfp.cgi . We look forward to
hearing from you.
Symposium conveners,
Sonia Consuegra, Swansea University, UK
(s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk)
Carlos Garcia de Leaniz, Swansea University, UK
(c.garciadeleaniz@swansea.ac.uk)16 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Guillermo Giannico, Oregon State University, US (gian-
nico@oregonstate.edu)
\Consuegra S." <s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk >
Toulouse EvolutionFamily Jun1-2
Dear colleagues,
We are delighted to invite you to the 5th Toulouse Eco-
nomics and Biology Workshop, which will take place on
June 1-2, 2017.
The theme is \The evolution and economics of the fam-
ily". For this 5th edition of the Toulouse Biology and
Economics workshop, we have invited speakers from
evolutionary biology, economics, and evolutionary an-
thropology who have conducted research on the family.
Areas of expertise of invited speakers include empiri-
cal approaches to understanding physiological, demo-
graphic, and behavioral responses to family living, and
theoretical modeling of sexual strategies, household pref-
erences, and reproduction.
We are thrilled to welcome the following speakers (ti-
tles and summaries coming soon): - Robert BROOKS
<http://www.bees.unsw.edu.au/rob-brooks >, Univer-
sity of New South Wales - Pierre-Andr e CHIAPPORI <
http://www.columbia.edu/ ~pc2167/>, Columbia Uni-
versity - Donald COX <https://www2.bc.edu/donald-
cox/>, Boston College - Partha DASGUPTA <http:/-
/www.econ.cam.ac.uk/people/crsid.html?crsid=pd-
10000&group=emeritus >, University of Cambridge -
David DE LA CROIX <http://perso.uclouvain.be/-
david.delacroix/ >, Universit e Catholique de Lou-
vain - Lena EDLUND <http://www.columbia.edu/-
~le93/>, Columbia University - Lee GET-
TLER<http://anthropology.nd.edu/faculty-and-sta/-
faculty-by-alpha/lee- gettler/ >, University of Notre
Dame - Hanna KOKKO <http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/-
sta/member/kokko hanna.html >, University of Z urich
- Ruth MACE <https://www.ucl.ac.uk/anthropology/-
people/academic-teaching- sta/ruce-mace >, Univer-
sity College London - Brooke SCELZA <http://-
www.anthro.ucla.edu/faculty/brooke-scelza >, UCLA -
Brian WOOD <http://anthropology.yale.edu/people/-
brian-wood >, Yale University
Besides the plenary sessions, there will be a poster ses-
sion for post-docs and Ph.D. students. Submissions (ab-
stract + C.V.) should be sent to econbio poster@iast.fr
no later than March 31, 2017. A limited number oftravel grants will be available to poster presenters. To
apply, please also provide a cover letter explaining why
you are applying for a grant and why you are interested
in attending to the workshop.
The workshop will take place at the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study in Toulouse, Manufacture des Tabacs, 21
All ee de Brienne, 31015 Toulouse, France.
Registration will open in the beginning of March
through this link <http://www.iast.fr/conference/-
5th-annual-toulouse-economics-and-biology-workshop-
evolution-and-economics-family >. For any information
please contact us at econbio@iast.fr We would be very
grateful if you could circulate this announce in your
institution. We look forward to welcoming you here!
Organizers: Ingela Alger, Jonathan Stieglitz and J orgen
Weibull Co-organizers: Alice Baniel and Mark Dyble
The Toulouse Economics and Biology Workshop
<econbio@iast.fr >
WashingtonDC BioGenomics Feb21
FirstDayRegist
First day only registration is now available along with
full registration for the inaugural Global Biodiversity
Genomics Conference held in Washington, D.C. 21-23
February 2017 at the Smithsonian National Museum of
Natural History organized by the Smithsonian Initiative
on Biodiversity Genomics and BGI. The conference will
bring together thought leaders, researchers, and aca-
demics, who are leading the charge in applying genomic
technologies to understanding life. The Conference is
one of the rst to address the transition from a sci-
entic emphasis on human genomics to one on global
biodiversity genomics.
The rst day will feature a Keynote Address by Edward
O. Wilson, Professor Emeritus, from Harvard University
entitled: The Linnaean Renaissance.
The meeting will focus on interactions and synergies
among biodiversity researchers, computational scientists,
sequencing technologists, and software developers.
The overarching goal of BioGenomics 2017 is to increase
our knowledge of the patterns of genomic variation in
order to enhance our understanding of past and present
evolutionary processes, to interpret the functional mean-
ing of dierences among genomes of individuals and
species, to discover and document how ecosystems op-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 17
erate, and to use this information to make predictive
management decisions about the future of life on our
planet. The Conference is focused on four basic themes:
Diversity Genomics: Origins, Diversity, and Patterns
of Life Evolutionary Genomics: Adaptation, Resilience,
and Evolutionary Novelty Ecological Genomics: Ecosys-
tem Function and Ecological Processes Conservation
Genomics: Environmental Sustainability and Conserva-
tion
The rst day will feature:
Pamela Soltis (The Role of Whole-Genome Duplication
in Plant Evolution)
Gene Robinson (Gene Regulatory Network Lability and
the Evolution of Insect Society)
Byrappa Venkatesh(Diversity of Fish Genomes)
Nancy Moran (Discovering the world of microbial sym-
biosis using genomics)
Thomas Gilbert (Palaeogenomic contributions to domes-
tication)
Harris A. Lewin (Eutherian Chromosomes in the Light
of Evolution)May Berenbaum (Ecological genomics^ a euro \footprints
of plant-insect coevolution in the CYPome)
Christina Richards (Understanding mechanisms of re-
sponse to complex environmental conditions using model
and non-model plants)
Jerey Good (Climate change and the evolution of sea-
sonal camouage)
Oliver Ryder (The impact of conservation genomics on
genetic rescue of endangered species: the critical role of
viable cell collections)
Robert Wayne (The Measurement of Adaptive and Dele-
terious Variation as Goals for Conservation Genomics)
Andrew Clark (Genomic Consequences of Population
Decline in the Endangered Florida Scrub-Jay)
Registration for Day 1 or for the complete conference
is available at: http://biogenomics2017.org/ along with
other details of the conference.
Please direct questions to Warren Johnson at: contact-
biogenomics@si.edu
"Johnson, Warren E.\ <JohnsonWE@si.edu >
GradStudentPositions
BielefeldU GalapagosSeaLions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
CharlesU Prague EvolutionGenomicsFishes . . . . . . . .19
CharlesU Prague EvolutionPloidy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
ClemsonU GenomicsAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
FUBerlin-BGBM Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
IllinoisTech Insect Evol PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
LaTrobeU GeneticRescuePlant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
LiverpoolU MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
MississippiStateU CaribbeanIguanas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
MonashOtago EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
MonashU PersistanceAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Munich WeevilSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26NASA Glenn Cleveland BiomimicryInsectFlight . . . 26
Naturalis Netherlands PteropodEvolution . . . . . . . . . 27
NorthDakotaStateU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . .28
StockholmU EvolutionOfParasitoidHost . . . . . . . . . . . 29
StockholmU PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
TelAvivU EvolGeneticsFlowerColor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
TelAvivU EvolutionaryFlowerColor 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
TennesseeTechU ShrimpSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Tours France InsectSocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
TrentU PhD AmphibianAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
TUM Germany TheoreticalPopulationGenetics . . . . 32
TU Munich 2 PlantBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3318 EvolDir March 1, 2017
UBremen LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBristol Berkeley EvolMetabolism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UdoPorto Archaeogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UEastAnglia LeafMinerPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . 37
UHamburg 7 HybridSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UKentucky EvolutionInsecticideResistance . . . . . . . . 39
UMeaU ForestGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UmeaU PlantLandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UNewBrunswick StJohn PopulationEcol . . . . . . . . . . .41
UNorthDakota BisonGeneticsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .42UPittsburgh EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Uppsala TwoPositions EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . 43
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UppsalaU Sweden Systematic Biology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USalzburg BulbophyllumTraitEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USDA BatonRouge EvolutionBeeVirus . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
USouthBohemia CzechRepublic ProtistEvolution . . 46
USouthernMississippi FishPopulationGenomics . . . . 47
BielefeldU GalapagosSeaLions
Graduate position, Bielefeld University, Galapagos sea
lions
A PhD position to study animal personalities and the
ensuing consequences at the individual and population
level in Galapagos sea lions (Zalophus wollebaeki) is
available in the Department of Animal Behaviour at
Bielefeld University from July 1st 2017 or soon there-
after. The position is available for three years and is
funded by Departmental funds with an initial six-month
tax-free stipend of 1000, followed by 30 months of an
E13/50% position with a gross salary of ca. 1300 per
month.
We seek a bright and highly motivated student who has
a proven record of eld experience studying wild animals.
A very good Master degree or equivalent in a relevant
topic (e.g. animal behaviour, behavioural ecology, pop-
ulation ecology, evolutionary ecology) is expected. The
ideal candidate will be able to work both independently
and as part of a multidisciplinary team, will have expe-
rience with both statistics and genetic techniques and,
in addition to excellent spoken and written English, will
be able to speak Spanish.
The study will take place on Caama no, a small islet
in the Galapagos archipelago. We have studied Gala-
pagos sea lions there since 2003 and most sea lions
are individually marked (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-
animalbehaviour/trillmich/sealions.html). Field sea-
sons on Caama no last from September-December and
February-March each year. Caama no is a small island
and there are no facilities at all, so an ability to work
in truly primitive conditions is essential.
The successful candidate will be based at the De-
partment of Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld Univer-
sity (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/animalbehaviour/-
home.html) and will be supervised by Oliver Kr uger,Fritz Trillmich and Joe Homan. The department is the
oldest of its kind in Germany and currently hosts ve
principal investigators, ve postdocs and fteen PhD
students. It oers a stimulating international environ-
ment and an excellent research infrastructure including
a brand new molecular laboratory. The working lan-
guage of the Department is English. Together with the
Evolution and Animal Ecology research groups housed
in the same building, there are some 50 scientists and
PhD students from over ten dierent countries working
on related topics in behaviour, ecology and evolution.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities.
To apply for the position, please provide: (i) a letter
of motivation including a 1-2- page statement of your
research experience; (ii) a CV including publication list;
(iii) names and contact details of three referees willing
to write condential letters of recommendation. All
materials should be emailed as a single PDF le to:
oliver.krueger@uni-bielefeld.de.
The application deadline is March 5th 2017 and in-
terviews will take place shortly thereafter. The
preferred start date is July 1st 2017 but is exi-
ble and will depend on the timeframe of the most
qualied applicant. For further information, please
see http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/ animalbe-
haviour/home.html or contact Stephanie Kalberer via
email (stephanie.kalberer@uni-bielefeld.de) with any in-
formal inquiries.
The University of Bielefeld is an equal opportunity
employer. We particularly welcome applications from
women and handicapped people. Given equal suitabil-
ity, qualications and professional achievement, women
and handicapped people will be given preference, unless
particular circumstances appl
stephanie.kalberer@uni-bielefeld.deMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 19
CharlesU Prague
EvolutionGenomicsFishes
We are seeking two highly motivated Ph.D. students to
join a project on molecular evolution of sensory genes in
shes. The selected Ph.D. candidate will be focused on
the following topics within the framework of the main
project: \Genomics of sensory adaptations: evolution
of vision, smell and taste in shes" funded by SNSF
(Switzerland):
1) PhD position I: Molecular evolution of vision and
olfaction in teleost shes (model groups: Mormyridae,
Cyprinidae, deep-sea shes; methods: genomics, tran-
scriptomics, stable isotope analysis; oered eld work
participation: Cameroon, Czech Republic)
2) PhD position II: Transcriptomics and developmental
plasticity of sensory systems in shes (model groups: Ci-
chlidae, Cyprinidae, deep-sea shes; methods: genomics,
transcriptomics, experimental biology; oered eld work
participation: Cameroon, Zambia, Czech Republic)
Genomic and transcriptomic methods will be employed
to identify molecular evolution and mechanisms of adap-
tation in shes. Sensory systems, such as vision, smell
and taste, serve animals to directly receive information
from their environment. Photoreceptors (for vision)
and chemoreceptors (for smell and taste) are proteins
present in various copies in the genome and in some
cases became highly adaptive molecules during sh evo-
lution. Project is focused on four model groups of
teleost shes (elephant shes, tropical African cichlids,
cyprinids and various deep-sea shes) with dierent
ecology, life-history and belonging to dierent evolu-
tionary lineages spanning the teleost phylogeny. The
performance and molecular background of the sensory
systems is further known to change during ontogeny.
The research project aims to integrate the ndings of
molecular genetics with trophic ecology and develop-
mental stages in dierent species and, therefore, it oers
a great combination of eld observation, experimental
setups and laboratory approaches.
The research group is located in Prague (Czech Rep.)
and the selected Ph.D. students will process collected
material, as well as will have an option to actively partic-
ipate in the eld sampling. The project is funded by the
Swiss National Science Foundation. Selected candidates
are expected to actively participate in international
conferences and produce research publications.Start: October 2017, Duration: 4 years
Competitive salary is composed of the fulltime project
position (240'000 CZK annually) + standard university
scholarship (will start at 75'600 annually and raise up to
115'000 CZK according to the progress of the study du-
ties; additional bonuses available for published research
papers), which in total corresponds to the average na-
tional salary and suciently covers living expenses in
the Czech Republic.
Required: motivation and enthusiasm for biology, nature
and science; uency in English; a M.Sc. degree in biol-
ogy or related elds (or to be nished until September
2017).
Desirable (but not necessary): previous experience with
laboratory work, especially molecular genetic methods;
(basic) bioinformatics skills (please highlight if you have
any), experience with research projects evidenced by a
(co)authorship of research papers or conference contri-
butions.
Deadline: review of applications will begin on 15th
March 2017 (the candidate has to be assigned to the
position by mid-April).
All questions and applications (CV + half-page mo-
tivation letter + 2 reference letters) should be sent
directly to Zuzana Musilova ( zuzmus@gmail.com - pre-
ferred, zuzana.musilova@natur.cuni.cz). Please indi-
cate which position you're interested in. More info
about the Division of Animal Evolutionary Biology,
and Department of Zoology: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
zoologie/biodiversity/index.php?page=3Dmusilova zuz-
mus@gmail.com
CharlesU Prague EvolutionPloidy
*PhD Position in Evolution of Ploidy Coexistence in
Wild Arabidopsis*
*Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles
University in Prague, Czech Republic*
We are seeking a highly motivated student to join a
project focused on ecological and evolutionary conse-
quences of genome duplication (polyploidization) in
plants. Although polyploidization is a leading force
in plant evolution including crops, we know little about
evolutionary drivers promoting coexistence of dierent
ploidy levels within a single species. By combining cross-
ing experiments, eld surveys and population genetic20 EvolDir March 1, 2017
analyses of genome-wide SNP data we aim to identify
the major forces promoting or preventing gene ow and
coexistence of diploid and tetraploid individuals of the
plant model species *Arabidopsis arenosa*.
The successful applicant will be supervised by Dr. Filip
Kol a as a part of the multidisciplinary team of ecologi-
cal genomics at the Faculty of Science, Charles Univer-
sity in Prague with close collaboration with the Univer-
sity of Innsbruck, Austria and the John Innes Centre,
Norwich, UK.
The main focus of the work will be
§crossing experiment between individuals of dierent
ploidy
§screening of ploidy level across dierent life history
stages using ow cytometry
§eldwork in the Carpathian Mts.
§analysis of high-throughput sequencing data (RADseq,
genome resequencing)
We oer
§work in an inspiring student-dominated environment
of the new team of ecological genomics
§competitive salary (monthly ~20,000 CZK) topping-up
the standard university scholarship (monthly from 6,000
CZK raised to 9,000 CZK together with the progress
of the study duties), which in total equals the average
national salary
§additional experience through international collabora-
tion with partners in Austria and the UK
§work in the historical centre of the UNESCO heritage
site of Prague city
We require
§strong motivation for interdisciplinary research at the
border of ecology, biosystematics and population genet-
ics
§a MSc degree in Biology or related elds (in summer
2017 at the latest)
Desirable but not required
§experience with design and data analysis of ecological
experiments
§good background in population genetics and/or experi-
ence with eldwork
Please send your CV, contacts of two referees and a
short motivation letter to the project leader, Filip Kol a
(lip.kolar@gmail.com). Review of the applications will
begin on* March 15th 2017* and will continue until the
position has been lled. The position is available from*summer 2017*.
{ Filip Kol a Department of Botany Faculty of Science,
Charles University Benatska 2, Prague CZ - 128 01
Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences Zamek 1,
Pruhonice CZ - 252 43 Czech Republic
Filip Kolar <lip.kolar@gmail.com >
ClemsonU GenomicsAnalysis
Clemson University is proud to invite applications for
PhD fellowships in \Computationally Intensive Ge-
nomics Analysis and Application in Agriculture" For
more information, please visit the following website:
www.clemsonnationalneedsfellows.org Cheers, Amy
Amy Lawton-Rauh, PhD Associate Professor, De-
partment of Genetics and Biochemistry; Faculty
Senate Vice President/President-Elect Clemson
University 316 Biosystems Research Complex,
105 Collings Drive, Clemson SC 29634-0318 Of-
ce +1.864.656.1507 jSkype amy.lawton.rauh
jamylr@clemson.edu jpopquantgenomics.org j
twitter.com/alawtonrauh < http://twitter.com/-
CUSoA Clemson>j j clemson.edu/genbiochem j
rosbreed.org/about jclemson.edu/glimpse/?pR60 <
http://clemson.academia.edu/PeterLaurence >
Amy Lawton-Rauh <amylr@clemson.edu >
FUBerlin-BGBM Biodiversity
2 PhD positions (TV-L FU, E 13, 50 %) in Biology
(Botany, Vegetation science) available at Botanischer
Garten Botanisches Museum (BGBM, Freie Universit at
Berlin) within the framework of the Colombian-German
research project \Integrated Biodiversity Management
in exemplar regions of Colombia (ColBioDiv)" funded
by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF).
General Information: ColBioDiv is a Colombian-
German collaborative research project of 39 months'
duration (01.01.2017-31.03.2020), which incorporates
various Colombian and German research institutionsMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 21
and subject areas (biology, geography, political science).
The principal objective of ColBioDiv is to provide the sci-
entic basis for biodiversity management as an integral
part of a sustainable development in two model regions
of Colombia: (1) The Andean region around the capital
Bogot a (Distrito Capital) and (2) the Caribbean re-
gion around the business metropolis Barranquilla. Both
regions urbanize strongly with high population inux
and thus have an increasing impact on the surround-
ing ecosystems, i.e., the Andean mountain rainforests
(Bosque Altoandino) and P aramos and tropical dry
forests (Bosque Seco Tropical) of the Caribbean, respec-
tively. Both regions harbor a remarkable biodiversity
and also provide a variety of ecosystem services, which
underlines their central importance in regards to water
supply and the conservation of biodiversity.
PhD 1 (position code ColBioDiv-WP1): Evolution and
genetic diversity of selected owering plant lineages in
the Colombian Caribbean, Lead Supervisor: Thomas
Borsch. Tasks of the employee: Botanical eldwork in
tropical dry-lands in the Colombian Caribbean; Assis-
tance in establishment and inventory of plots, herbarium
studies; Preparation and analysis of molecular and mor-
phological data sets for phylogeny reconstruction of
selected owering plant groups as well as taxonomic
research (Clarication of art concepts, compilation of
descriptions, etc.); Compilation of species occurrence
data and bio-geographical analyses; Assessment of the
genetic diversity of selected owering plant species. Pre-
requisites for employment: University degree in biology
or a related subject area (Master or Diploma) Further
requirements: Very good communication and team skills;
Experience abroad; Work experience in the DNA lab
and pertinent knowledge in phylogeny; Relevant back-
ground knowledge in botanical systematics; Very good
English and Spanish language skills; Secure handling of
MS Oce (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
PhD 2 (position code ColBioDiv-WP2): Analysis of
vegetation structure and biomass production in forests
of the Higher Andes (Bosques Altoandinos) and of the
spatial distribution of the dierent entities, Lead Super-
visor: Thomas Borsch. Tasks of the employee: Botanical
eldwork and vegetation ecology studies in high-Andean
ecosystems in the surroundings of Bogot a; Assistance in
establishment of plots and inventory of vascular plants;
Analysis of vegetation structure and denition of succes-
sion and degradation stages, respectively; Compilation
and analysis of relevant environmental data; Biomass de-
termination (eld-/laboratory-based or by using remote
sensing data). Prerequisites for employment: University
degree in biology or a related subject area (Master or
Diploma) Further requirements: Very good communi-
cation and team skills; Experience abroad; Very goodknowledge in statistics and experience in working with
SPSS and R or similar software applications, respec-
tively; Relevant knowledge in geo-botany, vegetation
ecology and/or plant geography; Experience in dealing
with remote sensing data and GIS software; Work ex-
perience in the soil laboratory; Very good English and
Spanish language skills; Secure handling of MS Oce
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
Both positions are to be lled starting at 1st of April
2017
Deadline for application (both positions): 20. February
2017
Please send your application accompanied by the corre-
sponding position code and the relevant documentation
(le type pdf only) to the BGBM's general administra-
tion oce, either by e-mail (av-p@bgbm.org) or by reg-
ular mail to Freie Universit at Berlin, Zentraleinrichtung
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum, Allge-
meine Verwaltung, K onigin-Luise-Str. 6-8, 14195 Berlin
(Dahlem).
By submitting an online application, you agree that
your data will be processed and stored electronically.
We would like to point out that in case of unprotected
electronical transmission of your application the Freie
Universit at Berlin is unable to guarantee for the security
of your personal data.
\Brokamp, Grischa" <G.Brokamp@bgbm.org >
IllinoisTech Insect Evol PopGenet
A PhD. studentship is available with the Miller lab,
Department of Biology, Illinois Institute of Technology.
Research in the lab focuses on the population genetics
and evolution of insects, mainly pest species. Current
areas of interest include adaptations to transgenic crops,
inferring migration routes, host associated population
structure and the evolution of specialist versus generalist
feeding.
Ideally, candidates will already have a Masters in a rel-
evant eld. Support through Teaching Assistantships
and Research Assistanships is available. Start date is
somewhat exible, but summer 2017 is preferred. If
you are interested please contact Nick Miller by email:
nmiller11@iit.edu .
Illinois Tech is a private non-prot private university
with a strong emphasis on graduate education. The22 EvolDir March 1, 2017
campus is located close to downtown Chicago.
{ Nick Miller Assistant Professor Department of Biology
Illinois Institute of Technology 298 Life Science Building
3101 S. Dearborn St Chicago IL 60616
312-567-3288
\nmiller11@iit.edu" <nmiller11@iit.edu >
LaTrobeU GeneticRescuePlant
A PhD position is available on the project \Genetic
decline and rescue in an endangered plant" in Dr John
Morgan's lab at La Trobe University, in collaboration
with Dr Steve Sinclair (Arthur Rylah Institute), Prof
Andrew Young (CSIRO) and Dr Paul Sunnucks (Monash
University).
The project: Rutidosis leptorrhynchoides (a daisy)
has helped reveal the importance of genetic self-
incompatibility and ploidy variation in plants. Despite
this, wild Rutidosis is in serious decline. Genetic rescue
is a powerful yet under-utilized approach to bolstering
the tness and evolutionary potential of populations of
conservation concern. The PhD candidate will investi-
gate the genetic decline and rescue of Rutidosis , using
wild plants and experimental plants with controlled ge-
netic heritage. Replicated experimental populations in
the wild and the glasshouse will be used to examine the
consequences of dierent genetic rescue strategies on
ecological tness and genomic structure.
Questions are rich and varied, including: - How does
the Rutidosis genome vary geographically? - How do
we design optimal genetic rescue strategies, using the
existing populations? - How does ploidy level (2n,
4n) aect the mechanisms of genetic rescue? - Does
self-incompatibility mask underlying genetic erosion? -
What are the long-term consequences of evolved escape
from genetic self- incompatibility?
Impact in theory and practice: - New 're-wilded' popu-
lations of an endangered species - Better understanding
of conservation genetics in plants with complex genetic
structure
The collaborative team: The project is part of a larger
ARC Linkage Project on multiple plant and animal
species \Genetic rescue of Australian Wildlife" led by
Prof Paul Sunnucks at Monash University, and involves
partners including the University of Canberra, Zoos Vic-
toria, CSIRO, Diversity Arrays Technology, and several
state Governments.Eligibility & application: The candidate will have a
Masters or 1st class Honours degree in a relevant eld,
enthusiasm for conservation biology, and a good work
ethic. The successful candidate must secure an LTU
PhD stipend scholarship.
Generous funding is available to cover the costs of
the eld data collection, glasshouse work and genomic
screening. $2,500 per annum is available to support
travel to conferences. The successful candidate will
commence the project as soon as possible.
To apply, please email John Morgan
J.Morgan@latrobe.edu.au a letter of motivation,
CV, overview of your academic results and contact
information for two academic references. For informal
inquires phone John at +61 (0) 3 9479 2226 or Steve
Sinclair at +61 (0) 427 458618.
La Trobe University is located in Melbourne, Australia,
which oers inclusive and multicultural environment
with opportunities to enjoy music, great sporting events,
world-class exhibitions and shows, cultural and culinary
festivals, as well as beautiful natural scenery and wildlife.
Melbourne commonly ranks in the top ve of the most
liveable cities on many criteria .
\alexandra.pavlova@monash.edu"
<alexandra.pavlova@monash.edu >
LiverpoolU MolecularEvolution
Graduate position.Liverpool.MolecularEvolution
Liverpool John Moores University PhD Scholarship Ap-
plication 2017
Molecular, physiological and ecological basis of the most
successful plant adaptive radiation in the Succulent Ka-
roo, South Africa
Lying within south-western corner of Africa, the Suc-
culent Karoo biome is recognised as one of the World's
most important regions of plant diversity. Here mem-
bers of the Aizoaceae are especially well adapted to the
arid desert environment. This is most evident in the
speciose dwarf succulent genus Conophytum, a Succu-
lent Karoo specialist that shows a remarkable degree
of range-restricted endemism. The Succulent Karoo
has also been identied as being at high risk from the
eects of climate change, with preliminary data suggest-
ing that dwarf succulents may be especially vulnerable.
However, neither the underlying mechanisms that in-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 23
uence the distribution and associated speciation of
these succulents nor how they might respond to specic
environmental conditions is understood.
The aim of this project is to better understand the key
drivers of the current distribution and evolutionary di-
vergence of the Conophytum genus. In doing so we will
be better able to project the potential responses of the
Conophytum to global environmental change, towards
the development of conservation measures that reduce
the extinction risk of these vulnerable taxa. The project
will achieve these aims by taking a multidisciplinary ap-
proach, combining plant biology with spatial modelling,
and molecular phylogenetics.
The project would focus on the following questions:
What are the drivers and ecophysiological adaptations
behind a rapid speciation rate shown by Conophytum in
South Africa? Can we predict how climate changes will
aect future species diversity? Why so many species
are highly restricted in their distribution, and how they
will be aected by a climate change? What genes are
responsible for adaptation and diversication?
Scholarship must commence at the start of the Autumn
Term 2017, and so all prospective candidates must have
the necessary qualications to commence their studies
at that date. The Scholarships are for 3 years and must
be for full-time study. Stipend will be at the standard
UK rates, which are yet to be conrmed for the 2017-18
academic year.
Application deadline is Friday 10th March 2017 and
result will be known in May.
Candidates must hold an Upper Second Class (2.1) or
1st Class Honours Degree and/or an appropriate Mas-
ter's degree or overseas equivalent.
In their application consisting of cover letter and CV,
candidates are asked to include and highlight their skills,
experience and/or knowledge relevant to this project;
in particular in Plant Ecology/Evolution, Species Dis-
tribution Modelling/Ecological Statistics, Geographic
Information Systems, Phylogenetics/Molecular Ecology.
For informal enquiries contact Dr Maxim Kapralov:
m.v.kapralov@ljmu.ac.uk
Dr Maxim Kapralov
LecturerjjSchool of Natural Sciences and Psychol-
ogyjjLiverpool John Moores University jjRoom
1.12jjLife Sciences Building jjByrom Streetjj
LiverpooljjL3 3AFjjUnited Kingdom jj+44
0151 231 2273 jjemail: m.v.kapralov@ljmu.ac.uk
jj http://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
qTUlBcYAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao \Kapralov, Maxim"
<M.V.Kapralov@ljmu.ac.uk >MississippiStateU CaribbeanIguanas
The Welch Lab at Mississippi State University is looking
for graduate students to study evolutionary and conser-
vation genetics in Caribbean iguanas. I am interested in
recruiting both MS and PhD students that would like
to pursue a degree in Biological Sciences. Students will
be able to choose between applied conservation genetics
research projects as well as more basic research projects
focused on the evolutionary dynamics of natural popu-
lations. Island populations of iguanas are particularly
useful for these types of studies because gene ow be-
tween islands is typically low, and population sizes vary
providing natural replicates for study. This research
is facilitated by extensive collaboration with leading
conservation biologists in the eld. Participants in the
Welch lab will primarily be asked to conduct molecular
genetic analyses. However, eldwork is highly encour-
aged, and students in the Welch Lab have even directed
extensive eld their own studies. Six graduate students
working on iguanas have already conducted extensive
work in the Turks and Caicos, the Bahamas, the Domini-
can Republic and the Cayman Islands. Collaborations
have further involved Jamaica, and most of the Lesser
Antilles. Work on Cuban iguanas is also currently be-
ing considered. Funding for students will initially be
provided by means of teaching assistantships with the
potential for research assistantships dependent on the
availability of external funding. Graduate student sup-
port is a real strength of graduate programs at MSU due
to the availability of Teaching Assistantships. We are
looking for students to start in August of 2017. There
are funds available on a competitive basis to support
student visits to MSU, and to provide $2,500 rst-year
stipend enhancements. Please contact Mark Welch at
mw497ATmsstateDOTedu if you are interested. A CV
would also be appreciated. For more information about
the Welch Lab, please visit markwelch.net.
Mark E. Welch, Ph.D. Associate Professor Graduate
Coordinator Dept. of Biological Sciences Mississippi
State University P.O. Box GY Mississippi State, MS
39762
E-mail: mw497@msstate.edu Webpage: http://-
markwelch.net Phone: 662.325.7564 Fax: 662.325.7939
\Welch, Mark" <welch@biology.msstate.edu >24 EvolDir March 1, 2017
MonashOtago EvolutionaryTheory
Graduate Student Position in Evolutionary Theory
Sponsors: Tim Connallon (Monash University) and
Hamish Spencer (University of Otago)
General context of the Research: There is abundant
genetic variation for tness in animal and plant popu-
lations, and it is thought that natural selection might
play a key role in maintaining it. Nevertheless, major
technical challenges currently limit our collective ability
to directly test hypotheses about the role of selection
in maintaining genetic variation. For most populations
in the wild, it is empirically intractable to measure the
tness of individuals, and to directly test for associ-
ations between individual genotypes and tness. An
alternative approach, which we advocate, is to develop
biologically grounded theoretical models that can bridge
the gap between the types of data that we are able to col-
lect, and the evolutionary processes that we ultimately
wish to understand.
The PhD project: We are looking for an enthusiastic
student that is interested in developing new evolutionary
theory for the maintenance of genetic variation. The
aim of the research will be to evaluate the potential
impact of sex dierences in natural selection, genetic
dominance, and sex-linked inheritance, on patterns of
genetic polymorphism and genome sequence evolution.
The position oers a superb opportunity for the student
to contribute to theoretical conceptualization, model
development and analysis, as well as the empirical evalu-
ation of theory using publicly available genomic datasets.
Specic projects will be designed in consultation with
the student, and developed around her/his strengths
and interests. We particularly encourage applicants with
strong skills in quantitative methods and computer pro-
gramming. Prior experience in mathematical modeling
is a plus, but is not required. The most important at-
tributes are a positive attitude about learning new skills,
a strong work ethic, and enthusiasm for addressing big
questions in evolutionary biology.
Application Process: We will support selected appli-
cants to apply for scholarships from Monash University
and the University of Otago. Applicants must have a
Masters, 1st class Honours degree, or equivalent, within
a relevant eld.
A Monash PhD stipend scholarship (and fee-waiver inthe case of international students) is approximately
AU $26,000, tax-free for 3.5 years, for full time research.
Expenses for research, coursework, and conference at-
tendance will be fully covered. Information about the
PhD program in the School of Biological Sciences at
Monash can be found at: http://www.monash.edu/-
science/schools/biological-sciences/postgrad. Monash
University is in the top 1% of universities, worldwide. It
is located in Melbourne, Australia, which oers an inclu-
sive and multicultural environment with opportunities
to enjoy music, sporting events, world-class exhibitions
and shows, cultural and culinary festivals, and natural
beauty and wildlife. Melbourne commonly ranks within
the top ve most liveable cities in the world.
A University of Otago Doctoral Scholarship provides
NZ $25,000 tax-free stipend per annum plus a tuition fees
waiver (excluding student services fee and insurance), for
36 months for full time research for both domestic and in-
ternational students. Expenses for research, coursework,
and conference attendance will be fully covered. Further
information on the Otago PhD programme can be found
at: http://www.otago.ac.nz/graduate-research/study/-
phddoctoral/programme/index.html .The University of
Otago received a Five Stars Plus QS Stars University
rating in 2016. It is located in Dunedin, in the South
Island of New Zealand, often considered the wildlife
capital of New Zealand and just four hours' drive from
several ski elds.
Statements of interest should include a CV, a cover let-
ter that describes your interest and t for the position,
and contact information for 2 professional references.
Review of applications will begin in March 15 and will
remain open until the position has been lled.
Informal inquiries are welcome at any time. Email: Tim
Connallon ( tim.connallon@monash.edu) and Hamish
Spencer (hamish.spencer@otago.ac.nz).
tim.connallon@monash.edu
MonashU PersistanceAdaptation
Three PhD positions at Monash University.
|{
We are looking for an outstanding student to ll a PhD
position available in Paul Sunnucks's Persistence and
Adaptation Research Team at Monash University on
the project \Climate adaptation and speciation by mi-
tonuclear interactions".March 1, 2017 EvolDir 25
The project focusses on various aspects of biology, phys-
iology and genomics of the eastern yellow robin, a
common and widespread passerine bird native to east-
ern Australia. Eastern yellow robin has two diver-
gent mitochondrial DNA lineages despite gene ow
at the majority of nuclear genome. The project
aims to reveal whether co-evolution between the mi-
tochondrial genome and partner genes in its nuclear
genome is causing the species to split eastern yel-
low robins into two forms adapted to inland and
coastal thermal environments. More details about the
project can be found on the lab website: https://-
sites.google.com/site/sunnucksresearchgroup/home .
Applicants for consideration for the PhD position will
have a Masters or 1 st class Honours degree in a relevant
eld. They must be able to work well in a team, have en-
thusiasm for conservation biology and publishing strong
science, a good work ethic, relevant research experience,
high academic achievement and excellent English.
The position oers the opportunity to design the project
around the student's strongest skill set and interests,
be that eld biology, genomics and/or modeling, and to
expand their expertise in other areas. Applicants chosen
to go forward in the process to ll the PhD position
must then secure Monash PhD scholarship support, for
which there are several options open.
A Monash PhD stipend scholarship (and fee-waiver in
the case of international students) is approximately
AU $26,000 AUD, tax-free for 3.5 years, for full time
research. Expenses for research, coursework, and con-
ference attendance are covered, although students are
encouraged to apply for some funding to build track-
record and experience.
More information on the postgraduate experience
in the School of Biological Sciences at Monash
University, Melbourne can be found at: http://-
www.monash.edu/science/schools/biological-sciences/-
postgrad . To apply, please email Paul Sunnucks
(paul.sunnucks@monash.edu) a letter of motivation,
CV, overview of your academic results and translation
if required (preferably indicating cohort rank or
percentiles), English test results if available and contact
information for three academic references. Successful
candidates can commence the project as soon as
possible. For informal inquires phone Paul at +61 (0) 3
99059593.
Monash University is in the top 1% of world universities.
It is located in Melbourne, Australia, which oers inclu-
sive and multicultural environment with opportunities
to enjoy music, great sporting events, world-class exhibi-
tions and shows, cultural and culinary festivals, as well
as beautiful natural scenery and wildlife. Melbourneis commonly ranks in the top ve of the most liveable
cities on many rankings.
|{
A PhD position is available in Paul Sunnucks's Per-
sistence and Adaptation Research Team at Monash
University on the project \Genetic Rescue of Australian
wildlife".
Genetic rescue is a powerful yet under-utilized approach
to bolstering the tness and evolutionary potential of
populations of conservation concern.
Under the umbrella of an ARC Linkage project for 2017-
20, three universities (Monash, La Trobe and Canberra)
have teamed up with nationwide partners with a wide
range of skills and responsibilities for wildlife, including
Victorian Department of Environment, Land, Water
and Planning (DELWP), Diversity Arrays Technology,
Zoos Victoria, Environment and Planning Directorate
(ACT Government), Department of Parks and Wildlife
(WA) and CSIRO.
The PhD candidates will work in a multidisciplinary
team investigating the genetic rescue of the Helmeted
Honeyeater, a critically endangered Australian bird.
The projects will involve eld and laboratory work,
wildlife biology, genomic analysis and conservation plan-
ning. The candidates will conduct excellent science
publishable in top journals while engaging with hands-
on conservation actions with leading institutions. There
will be opportunity to develop independent questions
within the major goals of the program - to conduct
and monitor experimental genetic rescue and develop
protocols for it within a framework of long-term species
management. The project is expected to yield improved
potential of threatened populations to persist and adapt
to changing environments , and will provide novel in-
sights into how genetic rescue works in populations and
the genomes of individuals.
Applicants for consideration for the PhD position will
have a Masters or 1 st class Honours degree in a relevant
eld. They must be able to work
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html26 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Munich WeevilSystematics
Under the Directorate General of the \Staatliche Natur-
wissenschaftliche Sammlungen Bayerns (SNSB)" we in-
vite applications for a PhD-position at \Zoologische
Staatssammlung Munchen" (SNSB-ZSM) (Zoological
State Collection Munich)
(www.zsm.mwn.de ) beginning 1. April 2017 (can be
negotiated) Subject: Biogeography and Evolution in
the Melanesian Archipelago - within the DFG-funded
project \An integrative approach to systematics and evo-
lution of Trigonopterus, a hyperdiverse genus of ight-
less weevils from Southeast Asia and the West Pacic
(Coleoptera: Curculionidae)". - This is a collabora-
tive project between the Balke lab at SNSB-ZSM and
Alexander Riedel (SMNK, Karlsruhe). Our model sys-
tem is a genus of Melanesian weevils for which we have
a large data foundation already, which we will build on,
as well as expand further.
Responsibilities include, among others: - independent
work in the DNA lab (i.e. processing of samples, DNA
extraction, Sanger-sequencing, sample storage). - in-
dependent processing of sequence data - comparative
analyses, together with other team members - collabora-
tive work on joint manuscripts - if possible, participation
in eld-work
Employment qualications: - Diploma in biology or MSc
degree in a relevant subject, e.g. evolutionary biology,
entomology, ecology etc. - excellent command of English
- profound knowledge of molecular systematics - ability
to collaborate within and outside our research group
- high motivation and ability to work under pressure
- willingness to travel, e.g. for periodical stays at the
Riedel lab in Karlsruhe, or abroad for eld work
The following qualications would be desirable: - valid
driver ^As license - knowledge of Linux computer sys-
tems - basic command of R - basic knowledge of NGS
sequencing and bioinformatics
What we are oering: - Salary is according to paygrade
TV-L E13 (65%) in the German Public Service scheme
granted the presence of employment qualications. -
opportunity to obtain a PhD. - The ZSM is one of the
largest natural history research museums in Germany.
The combination of classical museum work and various
cutting- edge approaches at ZSM attracts researchersand students of all levels, resulting in a vibrant atmo-
sphere.
More information: http://zsm-entomology.de/wiki/-
Coleoptera http://www.smnk.de/sammlungen/-
entomologie/kaefer/ This position is limited to a
three-year period.
The ZSM advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore encouraged to apply. Disabled people with largely
equal qualications will be favored.
Please send your (preferably electronic) application with
the relevant documents (motivation letter, CV, two ref-
erence letters, copies of certicates, up to ve relevant
reprints) to Zoologische Staatssammlung, Dr. Michael
Balke, Munchhausenstr. 21, 81247 Munchen Or by
Email: Coleoptera-ZSM@zsm.mwn.de.
Application deadline: 15. March 2017. Only applica-
tions arriving until this date will be considered.
Notice: Application documents can only be returned
if desired and expressly requested. Otherwise, all doc-
uments will be destroyed with the conclusion of the
selection procedure.
Unfortunately, costs arising from the application process
cannot be reimbursed.
Michael Balke ZSM Coleoptera <Coleoptera-
ZSM@zsm.mwn.de >
NASA Glenn Cleveland
BiomimicryInsectFlight
Ph.D. Fellowship in Biomimicry working with NASA's
Glenn Research Center and the Cleveland Museum
of Natural History on insect ight and application to
aerospace design.
NASA's Glenn Research Center is proud to sponsor a
Bio-inspired Research and Development (BIRD) Fel-
low for a PhD-seeking graduate student through a
Biomimicry Fellowship in the University of Akron's
Integrated Bioscience PhD Program in collaboration
with the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and
Great Lakes Biomimicry (GLBio). The fellowship pe-
riod begins in 2017 (applications will be reviewed until
the position is lled) and is renewable annually based on
performance assessments based on mutually agreed upon
standards. The eld of biomimicry oers application
opportunities in a variety of disciplines including paleon-
tology, entomology, anthropology, chemistry, chemical,March 1, 2017 EvolDir 27
mechanical and aerospace engineering, polymer science,
and biology.
We are looking for a highly motivated student who is
interested in the eld of biomimicry and its application
to solve real world problems in the aerospace industry.
The position will be sponsored by NASA's Glenn Re-
search (GRC) in Cleveland, Ohio, and the successful
applicant will interact with collaborating scientists and
engineers at NASA and the Cleveland Museum of Nat-
ural History (CMNH). The degree program is through
The University of Akron.
The focus area of interest to NASA involves the intersec-
tion between entomology and aerospace. The student
will work with the Department of Invertebrate Zoology
at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History to help
understand the applications of extinct and extant in-
sect species to aerospace. Specically, the fellow will
work to survey wing morphology and ight mechan-
ics to populate a predictive database for modeling and
aerospace design. The experience will include work with
data mining and data analytics in addition to working
with wind tunnels and developing proposals for long
term aerospace concepts. This is a great opportunity
for a student to gain industrial experience and make a
dierence while completing a graduate degree. If you
are interested in learning lessons from nature and hav-
ing an opportunity to apply those lessons to solve real
world problems, please apply to this program. For more
information about NASA GRC, please check our web-
site at www.nasa.gov/centers/glenn/home/index.html .
About NASA's Glenn Research Center: NASA's Glenn
Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio, researches, designs,
develops and tests innovative technology for aeronautics
and spaceight. We design game-changing technology
for spaceight that enables further exploration of the uni-
verse. We create cutting-edge aeronautical technology
that revolutionizes air travel. NASA's Glenn Research
Center is one of four NASA research centers. Glenn is
an essential component of NASA and an integral con-
tributor to the region. Glenn: - Has a decades-long
tradition of excellence in aeronautics and spaceight -
Makes key contributions in supporting NASA missions -
Is a vital element of the economy of the region - Partners
with local and national businesses - Collaborates with
colleges and universities - Makes signicant contribu-
tions to the research, design, development and testing of
technology - Shares the NASA message at schools, fairs
and events around a six-state region: -Ohio, Indiana,
Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota - Promotes sci-
ence, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)
education NASA Glenn's core competencies are 1.
Air-Breathing Propulsion 2. Communications Technol-
ogy and Development 3. In-Space Propulsion and Cryo-genic Fluids Management 4. Power, Energy Storage and
Conversion 5. Materials and Structures for Extreme
Environments 6. Physical Sciences and Biomedical Tech-
nologies in Space About the Cleveland Museum of Natu-
ral History: The Cleveland Museum of Natural History,
incorporated in 1920, is one of the nest institutions of
its kind in North America. It is noted for its collections,
research, educational programs and exhibits. The col-
lections encompass more than 5 million artifacts and
specimens, and research of global signicance focuses on
10 natural science disciplines. The Museum conserves
biological diversity through the protection of more than
7,300 acres of natural areas. It promotes health edu-
cation with local programs and distance learning that
extends across the globe. Its GreenCityBlueLake Insti-
tute is a center of thought and practice for the design
of green and sustainable cities.
Its website is: http://www.cmnh.org . To apply: http:/-
/uabiomimicry.org/fellowships/ For questions, please
contact: Peter H. Niewiarowski, Director of Biomimicry
Fellowships, U of Akron or Gavin J Svenson, Ph.D.
Assistant Director of Science Curator and Head of In-
vertebrate Zoology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Naturalis Netherlands
PteropodEvolution
*Two PhD positions are available to study pteropods
(planktonic gastropods) and the impact of ocean acidi-
cation at Naturalis Biodiversity Center (Netherlands)*
http://www.naturalis.nl/nl/over-ons/organisatie/-
werken-bij-ons/phd- student-pteropods-ocean-
acidication/
The closing date for applications is March 16, 2017.
The focus of Naturalis is biodiversity. Naturalis curates
a collection of 37 million specimens; this is one of the
world's largest natural history collections. We present
the history of our planet and the diversity of life on
Earth with permanent and temporary exhibitions, edu-
cational programmes and websites. Our research and
education are maintained at a high academic level.28 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Two PhD positions are available within the Vidi project
of Dr. Katja Peijnenburg to study planktonic gas-
tropods in the Marine Biodiversity group at the Nat-
uralis Biodiversity Center (Leiden, the Netherlands).
PhD project 1 will focus on assessing the adaptive po-
tential of pteropods using a population genomics ap-
proach. PhD project 2 will focus on quantifying calci-
cation and vulnerability to ocean acidication of shelled
pteropods using 3D morphometric techniques and eld
experiments.
Successful candidates should have a Master's degree
with an interest in ecology, evolution, oceanography,
marine biology, or a related eld. Excellent command
of the English language (written and verbal) is required.
The ideal candidates will be highly motivated and organ-
ised, with a demonstrated capacity for multidisciplinary
research. For PhD project 1, experience with next
generation sequencing and data analyses is a distinct
advantage. For PhD project 2, knowledge of morpho-
metric methods and advanced statistics is a distinct
advantage.
We oer a full-time contract for a period of one year,
to be extended with three years after a successful rst
year evaluation, and a salary of circa euro 2.670,- gross
per month. The successful candidates will be employed
by Naturalis in Leiden, and the PhD theses will be
defended at the University of Amsterdam. Naturalis
Biodiversity Center promotes gender equality and wants
to enhance the diversity of sta members.
Information on how to apply: http://www.naturalis.nl/-
nl/over-ons/organisatie/werken-bij-ons/phd- student-
pteropods-ocean-acidication/
Feel free to contact Katja Peijnenburg if
you have questions about the positions.
Katja.Peijnenburg@naturalis.nl. https://-
science.naturalis.nl/en/people/scientists/katja-
peijnenburg/ https://www.researchgate.net/-
job/884998 PhD position tostudy pteropods
andtheimpact ofocean acidication
\K.T.C.A.Peijnenburg@uva.nl"
<K.T.C.A.Peijnenburg@uva.nl >
NorthDakotaStateU
ConservationGenetics
CONSERVATION GENETICS PH.D. GRADUATE AS-
SISTANTSHIPNORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY
Conservation Genetics Ph.D. Graduate Student Assis-
tantship to conduct research on landscape genetics of
northern leopard frogs. The project will analyze an
existing dataset to evaluate gene ow among poten-
tially isolated wetlands, as means of assessing biotic
connectedness. Additional sampling and possible de-
velopment of additional molecular markers will be pur-
sued as warranted. This well-funded project is a col-
laboration between Craig Stockwell (NDSU) and David
Mushet (USGS Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Cen-
ter). Field work will take place in the upper Great
Plains. This project will provide excellent networking
opportunities with federal scientists from USGS and
EPA.
Position to start as soon as Summer 2017.
Open until lled
Requirements: BS or MS in ecology, aquatic ecology,
sheries biology, conservation biology or related eld;
Experience analyzing population genetics data, quanti-
tative skills, and ability to work independently and as
part of a research team.
Preferred: M.S., experience with landscape-genetic
landscape-resistance models, eld research experience,
experience using \R"
Salary: $24,000/year + full tuition waiver
Contact: Craig Stockwell, Professor, Biological Sciences,
201 Stevens Hall, Box 6050, North Dakota State Uni-
versity, Fargo, ND 58108-6050; http://www.ndsu.edu/-
stockwell lab/ e-mail: Craig.Stockwell@ndsu.edu
Please send application materials to
Craig.Sockwell@ndsu.edu and include the follow-
ing: 1) cover letter, 2) curriculum vitae / resume, 3)
all college-level transcripts and 4) names and contact
information for three references.
CONSERVATION GENETICS PH.D. GRADUATE AS-
SISTANTSHIP
NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY
Conservation Genetics Ph.D. Graduate Student Assis-
tantship to conduct research on landscape genetics of
northern leopard frogs. The project will analyze an
existing dataset to evaluate gene ow among isolated
wetlands, as means of assessing biotic connectedness.
Additional sampling and possible development of addi-
tional molecular markers will be pursued as warranted.
This project is funded through an EPA grant and is a
collaborative project between Craig Stockwell (NDSU)
and David Mushet (USGS Northern Prairie Wildlife
Research Center). Field work will take place in theMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 29
upper Great Plains.
Position to start as early as July 1, 2016
Requirements: BS or MS in ecology, aquatic ecology,
sheries biology, conservation biology or related eld;
Experience analyzing population genetics data, quanti-
tative skills, and ability to work independently and as
part of a research team.
Preferred: M.S., experience with amphibians, experi-
ence with landscape-genetic landscape-resistance mod-
els, eld research experience.
Salary: $22,000/year + full tuition waiver
Contact: Craig Stockwell, Professor, Biological Sciences,
201 Stevens Hall, Box 6050, North Dakota State Uni-
versity, Fargo, ND 58108-6050; http://www.ndsu.edu/-
stockwell lab/ e-mail: Craig.Stockwell@ndsu.edu
Please send application materials to
Craig.Sockwell@ndsu.edu and include the follow-
ing: 1) cover letter, 2) curriculum vitae / resume, 3)
all college-level transcripts and 4) names and contact
information for three references.
Craig Stockwell Professor Department of Biological Sci-
ences Stevens 201, NDSU Box 6050 North Dakota State
University Fargo, ND 58108-6050 Phone 701-231-8449
http://www.ndsu.edu/stockwell lab/ Craig Stockwell
<craig.stockwell@ndsu.edu >
StockholmU
EvolutionOfParasitoidHost
There is an open PhD-position in Ecology with a focus
on host use in parasitoids, at Department of Ecology,
Environment and Plant Sciences, Stockholm University.
Please spread this information to prospective students.
Description
The position will be associated with the project 'The
ecology and evolution of indirect interactions in host-
parasitoid systems', that is a multi-disciplinary project
involving a research group with experience in Ecology,
Behavioural Ecology, Insect Immunology and Popula-
tion Genomics of host-parasitoid systems. The overall
aim of the project is to understand the coevolution, and
speciation process, of host-parasitoid systems in a geo-
graphic context, focusing both on evolution of resistance-
virulence characters and on parasitoid host use. The
studies are performed in a well-studied model systeminvolving a set of closely related leaf beetle species and
their parasitoid. The specic aim of the PhD position
is to explore the evolutionary mechanisms underlying
geographic variation in host selection by parasitoids,
the role of learning in parasitoids and the consequences
of variation in host use on host-parasitoid population
dynamics. The studies will involve collaborations with
another PhD student working with the evolution of para-
sitoid virulence, and the main task includes behavioural
experiments in the laboratory, but the work may also
involve eld experiments and population modelling.
Dead-line for applications: 3 March
For further information contact peter.hamback@su.se
or see http://www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/-
vacancies-new-list?rmpage=job&rmjob=2548&rmlang=
UK
peter.hamback@su.se
StockholmU PlantInsectInteractions
Dear colleagues,
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD-student to
join the long-term research on the interactions between
plants, insects & microbes.
For more information see the project description
(below) and the following link: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/vacancies/vacancies-new-list?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=2550&rmlang=UK and don't hesitate to
contact me directly by email,
My best,
Ayco Tack ayco.tack@su.se
Project description Plants interact with a large number
of insects and microorganisms, including pests like her-
bivores and pathogens, and mutualists like parasitoids
and mycorrhizal fungi. In both agricultural elds and
natural communities these microbe and insect species
commonly co-occur on the same plant individual. While
we know how insects interact with insects, and microbes
with microbes, interkingdom interactions among plant-
associated microbes and insects have only rarely been
investigated. To ll this gap, the current project com-
bines experimental and molecular approaches to gain
a predictive understanding of how direct and indirect
interactions among insects and microbes structure ter-
restrial plant-based communities. The project can be
subdivided into two modules. The student will rst30 EvolDir March 1, 2017
explore the role of these interactions within a commu-
nity context in a multi-factorial greenhouse experiment,
focusing on the food webs surrounding the plant Plan-
tago lanceolata and Bistorta vivipara. Next, the student
will pinpoint the plant-mediated interactions between
microbes and insects by probing the response of the
plant - in terms of gene expression and defense-related
phytohormonal pathways - to microbe, insect and simul-
taneous attack.
Ayco Tack Assistant professor Department of Ecology,
Environment and Plant Sciences
Stockholm University SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden Vis-
iting address: Svante Arrhenius V ag 20A, room N420
Phone: + 46-(0)8-163959 Mobile: + 46-(0)70-4942557
ayco.tack@su.se
www.plantmicrobeinsect.com www.su.se/proles/atack
Ayco Tack <ayco.tack@su.se >
TelAvivU EvolGeneticsFlowerColor
Dear colleagues,
I have a PhD position available to work on the ge-
netic/molecular basis and evolution of ower colors
in the Royal Irises. The position is funded for 3
years and located at the Botanical garden at the
School of Plant Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Is-
rael. Application deadline April 30. More informa-
tion here: http://labsapir.wixsite.com/labsapir/single-
post/2016/07/ 18/PhDpostdoc-Flower-color-evolution-
in-irises Thanks and best wishes, Yuval
{
{ Yuval Sapir, PhD The Botanical Garden School of Plant
Sciences & Food Security Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv,
69978 Israel Tl: +972(0)3-6407354 (lab); +972(0)54-
7203140 (mobile)http://botanic.tau.ac.il/http://-
labsapir.wix.com/labsapir Stop population growth for a
sustainable futurehttp://www.populationmatters.org/
yuval sapir <sapiryuval@gmail.com >TelAvivU EvolutionaryFlowerColor
2
(now with an appropriate link) Dear colleagues,
I have a PhD position available to work on the ge-
netic/molecular basis and evolution of ower colors in
the Royal Irises. The position is funded for 3 years
and located at the Botanical garden at the School of
Plant Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Israel. Application
deadline April 30. More information here: http://-
*tinyurl.com/tauIrisPhD Thanks and best wishes, Yu-
val
{
Yuval Sapir, PhD Director, The Botanical Garden
Senior lecturer Dept. of Molecular Biology and Ecology
of Plants Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 69978 Israel
Tl: +972(0)3-6407354 (lab); +972(0)54-7203140 (mo-
bile)http://botanic.tau.ac.il/http://labsapir.wix.com/-
labsapir Stop population growth for a sustainable
future http://www.populationmatters.org/ yuval sapir
<sapiryuval@gmail.com >
TennesseeTechU ShrimpSpeciation
Masters Student Opportunity Speciation and genome
structure in Alpheus snapping shrimp
An MS position is available through the Department of
Biology at Tennessee Tech University in Cookeville, Ten-
nessee; starting date is between August 2017 and Jan-
uary 2018. The applicant will work with a collaborative
team that includes Dr. Carla Hurt from Tennessee Tech
University, Dr. Kristin Hultgren from Seattle University,
and Dr. Arthur Anker from Universidade Federal do
Ceara. The successful applicant will investigate the evo-
lution of genome size and chromosomal rearrangements
and the contribution of genome size evolution to species
diversication in the tropical snapping shrimp genus
Alpheus. The student would optimize techniques for
characterizing chromosomal structure and genome size
data and interpret this information in a phylogenetic
context. This project will be funded by the National
Geographic Society.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 31
We are looking for highly motivated candidates with
a B.S. in Biology or closely related eld and a strong
academic record. A GPA of at least 3.5 in the highest
degree earned is required. The successful candidate
should demonstrate an interest in molecular genetics
and systematics. The student will need to possess an
aptitude for research in a molecular genetics laboratory
as well as an ability to conduct eld work; scuba diving
experience is preferred (but not required). Previous
experience working in a molecular laboratory is pre-
ferred but exceptional applicants without experience
will be considered. Financial support (stipend and full
tuition waiver) will be provided through a Teaching
Assistantship and will be renewable annually contingent
upon satisfactory performance.
Interested students are encouraged to e-mail me
(churt@tntech.edu). Please include a short description
of your academic background, research interests and
your CV, along with contact information for three refer-
ences. Screening of applicants will begin immediately.
Carla Hurt Assistant Professor Department of Biology
Tennessee Technological University Phone: 931-372-
3143 Email: churt@tntech.edu
\Hurt, Carla" <churt@tntech.edu >
Tours France InsectSocialEvolution
1 PhD position: The evolution of social life in insects
We invite applications for a 3-years PhD position at
the Insect Biology Research Institute (IRBI) located
at the University of Tours, France. The project aims
at better understanding the evolution of social life in
insects by focusing on the European earwig, a species in
which family life is complex, temporary and facultative.
The PhD student will investigate how parent-ospring
interactions may improve resistance against pathogens,
enhance food acquisition and limit the expression of
social conicts in this species. The scientic project
includes standard laboratory setups, behavioral exper-
iments, pathogen manipulation and life-history traits
measurements (including immunity). Depending on the
student interests, the project may also include chemical
ecology, as well as quantitative/population genetics.
Our research institute oers an excellent, interna-
tional, dynamic and interactive scientic environment
(http://irbi.univ-tours.fr/) with state-of-the-art, newly
equipped laboratories. Information on the scien-tic work of our group can be found here: http://-
joelmeunier.wixsite.com/researchpage. Do not hesitate
to contact Jo el Meunier (see email below) for more
detailed information.
Tours is a beautiful historic city located on the Loire
Valley with many students and a rich social and cultural
life (http://www.tours-tourism.co.uk/). Note that the
university has a \welcome center" to help foreign PhD
students setting up in Tours.
The position requires a Master degree in Biology (or a
related eld). The successful candidate should have a
strong background in evolutionary biology and/or be-
havioral ecology. Good skills in biostatistics or a high
motivation to improve the statistical knowledge (e.g. R
language) are important. Moreover, the candidate is
expected to be very motivated, energetic, independent
and have a good team spirit. The position is funded
by the French Ministry of Research. People from every
nationality are encouraged to apply.
Interested candidates should send applications to Jo el
Meunier (joel.meunier@univ-tours.fr). The application
should be sent as a single document (pdf format) con-
taining a detailed motivation letter (max. 1.5 pages), a
curriculum vitae (with the grades of Bachelor and Mas-
ter classes), a summary of the Master thesis (max. 500
words and the expected date of completion if applicable)
and the email of 2-3 potential referees. The deadline for
applications is the 26th of March 2017 (included).
The starting date for the position is September 2017
Dr Joel MeunierjCNRS Researcher
Institut de Recherche sur la Biologie de l'Insecte (IRBI)
- UMR 7261 CNRS / Universit e Fran cois-Rabelais de
Tours Avenue Monge, Parc Grandmont 37200 Tours,
FRANCE
Oce: +33 (0)247 367 372 jFax: +33 (0)247 366
966 http://joelmeunier.wix.com/researchpage http://-
irbi.univ-tours.fr/ \jomeunier@univ-tours.fr"
TrentU PhD AmphibianAdaptation
PhD position or Post-Doctoral Fellowship investigat-
ing mechanisms underlying plasticity of amphibian re-
sponses to environmental stressors - Trent University
We are currently seeking a highly motivated PhD student
or Post-Doctoral Fellow who will examine mechanisms
governing the eects of environmental stressors on phe-32 EvolDir March 1, 2017
notypic and behavioural plasticity in amphibian models.
Building on our longstanding research on amphibian
responses to environmental stressors (including disease,
predation risk, and contaminants), we aim to further
establish a mechanistic link among ecological, physiolog-
ical, and genome-level responses in amphibian tadpoles
to natural or human-caused stressors. We are especially
interested in building a bioinformatics approach to help
identify the mechanisms involved in stressor-induced
phenotypic and behavioural plasticity. Our preliminary
work indicates dierences in gene expression that are re-
lated to tadpole exposure to dierent stressors, and our
next challenge is to establish the functional link between
expressed genes and type of stressor. Our team has ac-
cess to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment allowing
us to address these cutting-edge research questions, and
the successful candidate will have the opportunity to
develop his/her own research interests within the scope
of the broader program.
Applicants must have a strong academic record and
graduate degree(s) in Biology, Physiology, Ecology, Ge-
netics or a related eld. Candidates with an interest in
and/or knowledge of bioinformatics platforms/resources,
experience in extracting genetic material or other rel-
evant lab procedures, and conducting lab experiments
with larval amphibians, will be highly sought. Candi-
dates should demonstrate evidence of research potential
(including scientic publications), a strong work ethic,
and willingness to work in a large, dynamic, and collab-
orative research environment. The funding package is
competitive and will include a foreign tuition waiver, if
the successful applicant is an international PhD student.
The position will be closed as soon as a suitable candi-
date is found, so apply early! To apply, please submit:
cover letter, unocial transcripts, curriculum vitae, and
names of three references to: Dennis Murray (dennismur-
ray@trentu,ca; www.dennismurray.ca and Leslie Kerr;
lkerr@trentu.ca).
dennismurray@trentu.caTUM Germany
TheoreticalPopulationGenetics
We are looking for a PhD student in Theoretical Plant
Population Genetics Title: \Genomic consequences of
seed banking"
About us: The Population Genetics research group of
Aur elien Tellier is established since 2012 on the campus
Freising-Weihenstephan, in the department of Plant Sci-
ences. The group works on developing theory for plant
population genetics (info on: www.popgen.wzw.tum.de).
Project: The project will be based on developing novel
and extend current population genetics models for
species with seed banking. The project includes the
development of mathematical (stochastics, birth and
death processes) and statistical (Hidden Markov Model,
HMM) tools based on coalescent models for the anal-
ysis of sequence data from wild tomato species. The
project will consist in 1) extending the current coelscent
model with seed banks (mathematical part, 30%), 2)
developing a HMM model and tool to perform statistical
inference of parameters (statistical part, 40%), and 3)
analyze full genome data (Bioin-formatics part, 30%).
Mathematical skills are essential to build the coalescent
model, and statistical knowledge (Likelihood, HMM)
would be also advantageous. The student should be
willing to learn some bioinformatics for applying his
method to full genome datasets.
Qualications: Equivalent of a master's degree in math-
ematics, statistics or biology, and strong profes-sional
interests in theoretical evolutionary biology and/or boin-
formatics. Team spirit, working independ-ence, and
knowledge of written and spoken English are necessary.
The language in the lab is English.
We oer: The TU Munich is rated among the best in
Germany by international standards. The Campus for
Food and Life Sciences Weihenstephan hosts several re-
search groups with relevance for the re-search projects:
plant epigenetics and epigenomics (Prof. F. Johannes),
plant evolution and biodiversity (Prof H Schaefer), sta-
tistical biology (Prof D Ankerst), and Mathematical
Modelling (Prof J. M uller). The group is located into
the newly build Hans Eisenmann Zentrum with state
of the art facilities for computing and bioinformatics.
The most recent relevant publications include: [1] Koop-
mann B., J. M uller, A. Tellier and D. ^Aivkovi ~A (2017)
Theor. Pop. Biol. 114:29-39 [2] Stam R., Scheikl D.,March 1, 2017 EvolDir 33
and A. Tellier (2016) Genome Biol. Evol. 5: 1501-1515
[3] B ondel et al. (2015) Mol. Biol. Evol. 32: 2932-2943
[4]^Aivkovi ~A D., and Tellier A. (2012) Molecular Ecology
21: 5434-5446
The studentship is nanced by the German Agency
for Science (DFG) for 3 years, and salary is 65% TV-
L E13. Funding covers research and conference costs.
The PhD student would benet from the wide range of
training courses oered by the TUM graduate school
(www.gs.tum.de). The TUM is interested in fostering
career opportunities for women, therefore women are
strongly en-couraged to apply. Applicants with dis-
abilities and more or less equal qualications will be
favoured.
Application: If you have interest please contact Aur elien
Tellier (tellier@wzw.tum.de). For applying, please send:
1) a CV, 2) a short statement of research interests and ex-
perience, and 3) contact information for two references
(preferably everything in a single pdf le). Starting
date is exible in 2017, and deadline for application is
03/03/2017.
Prof. Dr. Aur elien Tellier Technische Universit at
M unchen, Section of Population Genetics Liesel Beck-
mann Strasse 2, 85354 Freising, Germany email: tel-
lier@wzw.tum.de
Aurelien Tellier <tellier@wzw.tum.de >
TU Munich 2 PlantBreeding
The chair of plant breeding at the Technical University
of Munich / TUM School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan
invites applications for a PhD position TV-L E13 (65%),
starting as soon as a suitable candidate is found. Re-
search in the plant breeding group is focused on the
development of molecular and statistical tools for plant
breeding as well as on genome analysis in crop plants.
Projectdescription: \FullThrottle"is a collaborative
project combining physiology, biochemistry, molecular
biology and genetics to investigate the factors aecting
the rate and eciency of C4 photosynthesis. Maize in-
trogression lines will be used to identify and characterize
QTL for photosynthesis-related traits and to investigate
their relation to drought stress tolerance. Detailed anal-
ysis will focus on physiological parameters and transcript
proling in well-watered and drought stress conditions.
The results will be integrated with those obtained by
other partners in the project to provide a comprehensiveanalysis of photosynthesis eciency in maize. We are
looking for a highly capable and motivated candidate
to take on a challenging but potentially very rewarding
research subject.
Thesuccessful applicant is expected to have:
* Diploma or Master's degree in biology, molecular
biotechnology, plant physiology or related disciplines
(above average grades) * Background in genetics, molec-
ular biology and biochemistry is advantageous * Interest
in photosynthesis and plant stress physiology * Willing-
ness to carry out both eld and laboratory work * Very
good English (oral and written), German is an advan-
tage * Ability to work in a team and to collaborate with
other research groups
Weoer:
* An interdisciplinary working environment in a team of
molecular and statistical geneticists * Active exchange
and collaboration with partners from academia and
industry in a eld of constant technical and methodolog-
ical development * Advanced education in molecular
genetics, bioinformatics and plant breeding in courses
and summer schools * Employment contract with the
German public service salary TV-L E13 (65%), for three
years
TheTechnical University of Munich is committed to
increasing the proportion of women in research and
education and thus explicitly invites qualied female
scientists to apply for this position. Preference will be
given to disabled candidates with essentially the same
qualications.
Contact: Applicationswith the usual supporting informa-
tion (letter of motivation, CV, certicates, transcripts,
credentials, etc. in a single pdf le) should be submitted
by Email to jobs.z7x.wz@tum.de, subject matter: \PhD
Position on Maximizing Photosynthetic Eciency in
Maize 17.2". Application will be open until the position
is lled.
Formore information please see: http://-
www.plantbreeding.wzw.tum.de For questions related
to the position and further background information
please contact Dr. Claudiu Niculaes, Plant Breeding,
TUM, claudiu.niculaes@tum.de.
|{
Thechair of plant breeding at the Technical University of
Munich / TUM School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan
invites applications for a PhD position (TV-L E13, 75%)
starting as soon as a suitable candidate is found. Re-
search in the plant breeding group is focused on the
development of molecular and statistical tools for plant
breeding as well as on genome analysis in crop plants.34 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Researchtopics:
* Contribution to the collaborative project \MAZE"
(www.europeanmaize.net) on genomic and functional
diversity of maize * Genetic and genomic analysis
of cold tolerance at early stages of maize develop-
ment * Genomic and phenotypic characterization of a
unique library of doubled- haploid lines grown in multi-
environment trials to determine the genetic architecture
of quantitative traits * Development of statistical meth-
ods for quantitative trait loci (QTL) estimation and
genomic prediction in genetic resources * Investigation
of multiple trait genomic prediction with a focus on
genotype x environment interactions
Thesuccessful applicant is expected to have:
* Master's degree in (bio-) statistics, plant breeding or
related disciplines (above average grades) * Advanced
knowledge in statistical software, preferably with R *
Background in (quantitative) genetics is a strong plus
* Very good English (oral and written), German of ad-
vantage * Ability to work in a team and to collaborate
with other research groups
Weoer:
* An interdisciplinary working environment in a team of
plant breeders, statisticians, molecular geneticists and
bioinformaticians * Active exchange and collaboration
with partners from academia and industry in a eld of
constant technical and methodological development
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBremen LifeHistoryEvolution
A PhD student position within the EU-funded
Marie Sk ^A3odowska-Curie Innovative Training Network
BINGO (Breeding Invertebrates for Next Generation
Biocontrol) is available at the Population & Evolution-
ary Ecology Laboratory at Bremen University, Germany:
RP 4: Clutch size, sex ratio, and dierential mortality
in the Bracon hebetor /B. brevicornis species complex
The candidate will work on clutch size, sex ratio, and dif-
ferential mortality in the Bracon hebetor / B. brevicornis
species complex. Probably due to global warming, theEuropean corn borer recently became able to produce
two generations per year instead of just one, thereby
drastically increasing its destructive potential in some
areas. Wasps of the genus Bracon are very promising
additional biocontrol agents against this important pest.
By quantifying and mapping genetic variation for im-
portant traits, such as clutch size or sex ratio produced,
we will be able to select for the most suitable Bracon
populations.
The main objectives of this project are (i) to analyse the
natural variation and heritability in the above mentioned
traits, (ii) to set up selection lines and to map genomic
variation for understanding phenotype/genotype links
(SNP) and (iii) to analyses the trade-os involved in
phenotype expression.
We seek a bright, highly motivated, and enthusiastic
person able to work both as part of a team and indepen-
dently. The ideal candidate shall have a master degree
or equivalent in natural science, preferably with a good
background in entomology, ecology, evolution, genetics
and/or biological control. Good skills in statistical data
analysis (R) are a plus, but training will be provided.
The language in the lab is English, and a high standard
of spoken and written English is required.
Candidates must be, at the time of recruitment by the
host organisation, in the rst four years (full-time equiv-
alent) of their research careers and have not yet been
awarded a doctoral degree. This is measured from the
date when they obtained the degree which would for-
mally entitle them to embark on a doctorate. Eligible
candidates may be of any nationality but must not, at
the time of recruitment have resided or carried out their
main activity (work, studies, etc) in Germany for more
than 12 months in the 3 last years immediately prior to
the recruitment date.
The BINGO-ITN is funded by the EU Horizon 2020
programme and involves 12 partners from academia,
non-prot organizations and biocontrol industry located
in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Czech
Republic, Austria, Switzerland, Greece and Portugal.
BINGO's approach is multidisciplinary, encompassing
a broad range of scientic disciplines, including the ap-
plication of state-of-the-art population genomics. The
BINGO programme combines integrated training work-
shops and internship opportunities across the network,
with career opportunities in academia, public or the
private sectors. You will work in close cooperation
with PhD students and researchers involved in related
BINGO research projects. Secondments are planned to
other BINGO participants For more information, please
have a look at www.bingo-itn.eu
As a winner of the Total-E-Quality Science Award theMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 35
University of Bremen strives for increasing the number
of females in science.
Handicapped applicants will be preferred in case of equal
qualications over other applicants.
The position is nanced with TVL 13 1/1 (full position)
for 20 month, conditional to the approval of the funding.
Thereafter with TVL 13 1/2 for 16 month, with a 2 SWS
teaching duty per semester, conditional to the approval
of the funding.
To apply, please provide a letter of motivation and a
detailed CV by indicating the job id A13/17 to:
Dr. Andra Thiel,
Population and Evolutionary Ecology
FB 02, Institute of Ecology
Leobener Strasse NW2
University of Bremen
D-28334 Bremen
or by mail: thiel@uni-bremen.de (CC to: info@bingo-
itn.eu)
Add subject: BINGO-Application RP4
We will be considering applications until 17 February
2017. The envisaged starting date is 1 April 2017, the
total duration of the position is 36 month.
Dr. Andra Thiel
Population and Evolutionary Ecology
FB 02, Institute of Ecology
University of Bremen
D-28334 Bremen
fon ++49-421-218-62937 fax ++49-421-218-62949
email: thiel@uni-bremen.de
http://www.popecol.uni-bremen.de \thiel@uni-
bremen.de" <thiel@uni-bremen.de >
UBristol Berkeley EvolMetabolism
The Evolution of Metabolisms that Shaped Life on Earth
Supervisors:
Dr. Patricia S anchez-Baracaldo (Geographical Sciences,
University of Bristol) - Main contact Email: p.sanchez-
baracaldo@bristol.ac.uk; Tel: +44 (0) 117 954 6858Prof. John Huelsenbeck (Dept. of Integrative Biology,
University of California, Berkeley)
The bacterial metabolisms of photosynthesis and nitro-
gen xation have shaped life on our planet by contribut-
ing to the cycling of carbon and nitrogen in the Earth's
biosphere. While photosynthesis xes carbon dioxide
using dierent electron donors into carbohydrates, ni-
trogen xation transforms atmospheric nitrogen into a
bioavailable source such as ammonium. Geochemical
and biological evidence suggests that photosynthesis
(1-3) and nitrogen xation (4,5) evolved shortly after
life originated on our planet. Understanding how these
metabolisms evolved through the bacterial domain will
give insights into how these processes have shaped bio-
geochemical cycles. How can we study the evolution
of photosynthesis and nitrogen xation given that they
evolved billions of years ago? The evolution of these
processes must be studied indirectly, through the phy-
logenetic comparison of a wide diversity of bacterial
lineages. Such an analysis can help elucidate the details
of how these processes evolved and when they evolved.
Lateral gene transfer the transmission of genes between
dierent bacterial lineages has been used to explain the
current distribution of these metabolisms on the bacte-
rial tree of life. Alternative explanations might also be
possible, such as the dierential loss of genes involved
in these metabolisms as bacterial lineages diversied.
Using the bacterial tree of life, this project aims to
study how and when these fundamental metabolisms
evolve. We will use large genomic data sets to study:
(1) the evolution of the bacterial linages and (2) the
evolutionary patterns for photosynthesis and nitrogen
xation (both vertical and horizontal) across bacterial
groups. The Ph.D. student funded by this grant will
also have the unique opportunity to not only collect the
appropriate data but also to develop new phylogenetic
methods.
This student would be co-advised by Dr. Patricia
S anchez-Baracaldo (University of Bristol) who is an
expert in the biological/geological data and Prof. John
Huelsenbeck (University of California, Berkeley) who is
an expert in the development of phylogenetic methods.
This is a great opportunity for students interested in evo-
lutionary biology, phylogenetic methods, bioinformatics,
and the origin of life.
This is a four-year project funded by the University of
Bristol (the host institution) with a stipend of 14,296 +
fees for UK and EU students.
How to apply: Please make an online application for
this project at http://www.bris.ac.uk/pg-howtoapply.
Please select 'Geographical Sciences: Physical (PhD)'
on the Programme Choice page and enter the title of the36 EvolDir March 1, 2017
studentship project 'The Evolution of Metabolisms that
Shaped Life on Earth' when prompted in the Funding
and Research Details sections of the form.
Applications deadline:: 17 February 2017. Interviews
are expected to be held in early March 2017
Candidate requirements: At least a 2.1 (Hons) degree or
equivalent in a relevant quantitative subject, e.g. micro-
biology, bioinformatics, population genomics, environ-
mental biotechnology, marine biology, plant molecular
biology, genetics, genomics, and computer science. For
EU students, English Language IELTS scores of at least
6.5 (no less than 6.0 in any element). A Masters de-
gree in a relevant subject would be desirable but not
essential. Computer programming skills in a relevant
language, e.g. C/C++, Python, R or Matlab would be
an advantage. The award is available for UK or EU
students only.
References:
1. Bell, E. A., Boehnke, P., Harrison, T. M. & Mao, W.
L. Potentially biogenic carbon preserved in a 4.1 billion-
year-old zircon. P Natl Acad Sci USA 112, 14518-14521,
(2015). 2. Tice, M. M. & Lowe, D. R. Photosynthetic
microbial mats in the 3,416-Myr- old ocean. Nature 431,
549-552, (2004). 3. Blankenship, R. E. Early evolution
of photosynthesis. Plant Physiol 154, 434-438, (2010).
4. Thomazo, C., Ader, M. & Philippot, P. Extreme
15N-enrichments in 2.72-Gyr- old sediments: evidence
for a turning point in the nitrogen cycle. Geobiology 9,
107-120, (2011). 5. Weiss, M. C. et al. The physiology
and habitat of the last universal common ancestor. Nat
Microbiol 1, 16116, (2016).
John Huelsenbeck University of California, Berkeley De-
partment of Integrative Biology 3060 VLSB # 3140
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140
E-mail: johnh@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 502-5887
John Huelsenbeck <johnh@berkeley.edu >
UdoPorto Archaeogenetics
Invitation to join a research project: Ph.D. student in
Genetics, Biology, Animal Science, Bioinformatics or
related elds
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate student,
who is interested in pursuing a PhD degree in the eld
of Archaeogenetics, Biology, Animal Science, Bioinfor-
matics or related elds to join the team of a researchproject entitled \ARCHAIC - The archaeogenetics of
Iberian cattle: investigating their origins, evolution and
improvement" (PTDC/CVT??LIV/2827/2014; POCI-
01-0145-FEDER-016647).
The student will be engaged to ARCHAIC, an inno-
vative project merging zooarchaeology and genetics -
which is critical to capture the temporal and geograph-
ical dimensions of the history that shaped the genetic
composition of cattle.
This cross-disciplinary project represents a great op-
portunity to get intensive training in the methods of
ancient and modern DNA analyses, including DNA iso-
lation from a variety of sources, preparation of genomic
libraries, next-generation sequencing, quality control
of DNA templates while completing a graduate degree.
There will be a strong bioinformatics component to pro-
cess and validate NGS data using appropriate pipelines
for ancient DNA sequence data, to estimate genetic
diversity and investigate demographic processes.
The invited student will interact with an international
team of scientists at CIBIO/InBIO-University of Porto
in the Campus of Vairao, Portugal, at LARC-National
Laboratory of Archaeosciences in Lisbon, Portugal, and
at foreign participating institutions namely the Archae-
ological Research Laboratory of Stockholm University.
Required qualications
Research funds are available through the ARCHAIC
project, but to try to obtain monthly stipends the in-
vited graduate student is expected to apply to the next
call for Ph.D. Fellowships of Fundacao para a Ciencia e
a Tecnologia - FCT, Portugal, open from 1 to 31 March
2017 (5pm, Lisbon time) and should comply with the
necessary requirements. For details please check the call
website:
http://www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/concursos/-
individuais2017.phtml.en An advanced master degree
in Genetics, Biology, Animal Science, Bioinformatics or
any related eld is required.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for labora-
tory work and strong interest in molecular genetics and
evolution.
Preference will be given to students with experience
in molecular biology, namely in preparing libraries for
next-generation sequencing and/or analysis of degraded
samples.
Bioinformatics skills in 'Big-data' analytical approaches
and in population genetics will be valued, as well as
knowledge of programming languages like Unix and
Python/Perl and of statistical analysis in R.
Good writing and communication competencies in En-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 37
glish, along with excellent team working skills are highly
desirable.
We are looking for a student who is able to work inde-
pendently, to take own initiatives and to have a strong
interest in producing high quality research and writing
scientic publications.
Availability to carry out research work outside Portugal
is also needed.
For more information about ARCHAIC, please check
the project website:
http://archaic.campus.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/Archaic/-
home.html To know more about our research group,
please check:
https://cibio.up.pt/people/details/cginja The applica-
tion should include the following information:
1) a letter of intent describing yourself, your research
interests and motivation of why you want to do a PhD
2) a CV summarizing your education, experience, other
qualifying activity, and a list of publications
3) a copy of your master degree and course grades
4) the names and contact information (address, e-mail
address, and phone number) of two referees
You are welcome to submit your application no later
than March 3, 2017. The application must be written
in English and sent by email to the address below:
ARCHAIC@cibio.up.pt
For further information, please contact:
Catarina Ginja, PhD
Research Associate, IF2014 Fellow
http://cibio.up.pt/people/details/cginja CIBIO/InBIO
- Laboratorio Associado
Centro de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e Recursos
Geneticos
Universidade do Porto
Campus Agrario de Vairao
Rua Padre Armando Quintas no7
4485-661 Vairao, Portugal
E-mail: catarinaginja@cibio.up.pt
Tel.: +351 252 660 411
Research Associate, IF2014 Fellow http://cibio.up.pt/-
people/details/cginja CIBIO/InBIO - Laboratorio Asso-
ciado Centro de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e Recur-
sos Geneticos Universidade do Porto Campus Agrario
de Vairao Rua Padre Armando Quintas no7 4485-661Vairao, Portugal E-mail: catarinaginja@cibio.up.pt
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia
LeafMinerPopulationGenetics
PhD studentship: Population genetics and ecology of a
leaf-mining pest
We are looking for a talented and motivated student
to undertake a four-year BBSRC-funded iCASE PhD
at the University of East Anglia in Norwich. Project
details below. Interested applicants are encouraged to
contact the primary supervisor, Dr Lewis Spurgin, via
email (l.spurgin@uea.ac.uk). Applications can be made
via the UEA website:
https://www.uea.ac.uk/study/-/population-genetics-
and-ecology-of-a-leaf-mining-pest-spurgin u17icase1-
Project summary
Pests and invasive species are excellent models for under-
standing population dynamics and evolutionary adap-
tation. Furthermore, an understanding of population
ecology is essential for eective pest management. This
studentship will use a combination of ecological eld-
work, molecular genetics and statistical modelling to
understand the population dynamics of the mangold y
- an increasingly serious pest of sugar beet in the UK.
The student will carry out eld work to map the range
of the mangold y and identify the ecological factors
underpinning its distribution. They will then develop
molecular tools for species identication, and use pop-
ulation genetic methods to infer patterns of migration
and demography within and among farms. Finally, in-
sects will be brought into state-of-the-art insect rearing
facilities, where this species' life-history will be studied
in relation to its crop host. Thus, the studentship has
potential to gain new insights into population ecology,
while directly helping the UK farming community at
the same time.
The studentship will be supervised by Dr Lewis Spurgin,
in collaboration with leading researchers at UEA (Profs
Tracey Chapman and Matt Gage), the John Innes Cen-
tre (Dr Ian Bedford) and the British Beet Research38 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Organisation (BBRO; Mark Stevens). Together, the
supervisors have decades of research experience in pop-
ulation genetics, ecology and pest management science.
The student will receive bespoke training in eld ecology,
molecular genetics and statistical analysis, as well as
broader training from UEA and the Norwich Biosciences
DTP.
{ Dr Lewis Spurgin BBSRC Future Leader Fellow School
of Biological Sciences University of East Anglia Norwich
Research Park NR4 7TJ, UK
Email: l.spurgin@uea.ac.uk Web: lewisspur-
gin.wordpress.com
L.Spurgin@uea.ac.uk
UHamburg 7 HybridSystematics
We invite applications for 7 PhD positions in our re-
cently funded project:
HYBRIDS - chances and challenges of new genomic
combinations is a collaborative research project with
participating scientists from the University of Ham-
burg (UHH), the Bernhard-Nocht-Institute for Tropical
Medicine (BNI) and the Climate Service Center Ger-
many (GERICS). The consortium studies patterns and
characteristics of hybridization events in nature. These
studies are carried out at the level of genomes, the level
of species and nally at the level of populations to under-
stand the interplay between: hybrid genomics - hybrid
performance - hybrid distribution
Hybrids, i.e. crosses between species, appear in na-
ture much more frequently than until recently thought.
Recent results suggest that hybridization events play
a crucial, yet not very well understood, role in evolu-
tion. Hybridization eects are often used in breeding
program and form one of the foundations of our agricul-
tural system. However, hybrids are often also invasive
species and represent a great challenge for many ecosys-
tems. A dramatic increase of hybridization events can
be expected due to the current climate change and the
accompanying shift in the distribution of species. This
calls for an interdisciplinary consortium working at dif-
ferent scales to study the patterns and characteristics
of hybridization events.
The metropolis Hamburg is one of the most popular
cities in Europe and harbors one of the largest univer-
sities in Germany. Apply now for a funded one-week
stay in Hamburg during our Hamburg Biofuture CareerDays from the 3rd to the 7th of April 2017. This work-
shop oers the possibility to meet experts from industry,
funding bodies, and academic publishers. Learn about
career options in biology and get 1 out of 7 PhD. posi-
tions. Attached below you nd the ads for the zoological
projects, three botanical and more information on all
individual projects can be found on our website:
https://www.biologie.uni-hamburg.de/en/hybrids Fac-
ulty/Departement Mathematics, Informatics, Natural
Sciences/Biology Seminar/Institute Center of Natural
History
Pending approval of external funding Universitat Ham-
burg invites applications for a Research Associate for
the project \Hybrids - Chances and challenges of novel
genomic combinations", sub-project P2 \Hybridisation
between terrestrial snails as a result of climate-induced
range shifts" in accordance with Section 28 subsection 3
of the Ham- burg Higher Education Act (Hamburgisches
Hochschulgesetz, HmbHG). The position commences on
1.7.2017.
It is remunerated at the salary level TV-L 13 and calls
for 50 % of standard work hours per week*.
The xed-term nature of this contract is based upon
Section 2 of the Academic Fixed-Term Labor Contract
Act (Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz, WissZeitVG). The
term is xed for a period of 3,4 years.
The University aims to increase the number of women in
research and teaching and explicitly encourages qualied
women to apply. Equally qualied female applicants
will receive preference in accordance with the Hamburg
Equality Act (Hamburgisches Gleichstellungsgesetz, Hm-
bGleiG).
Responsibilities: Duties include academic services in
the project named above. Research associates can also
pursue independent research and further academic qual-
ications.
Specic Duties: The doctoral student will perform
cutting-edge research in a research-driven environment
with excellent technical facilities in the context of the
new research project HYBRIDS - chances and chal-
lenges of novel genetic combinations. For a better un-
derstanding of the genetic basis of dierentiation and
hybridization processes, hybrid zones between dieren-
tially strongly isolated taxa of a land snail complex in
the Southern Alps will be studied using newly estab-
lished RAD markers and genomic cline analyses. The
mapping and sampling of the populations also pertains
to the duties. Requirements: A university degree in
a relevant eld. The candidate should be experienced
with molecular biological methods and preferentially
also with \next generation sequencing" techniques andMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 39
data analyses or a programming language (Perl, Python,
Unix, R). The project requires analytical thinking, good
team work ability and good English skills.
Selected applicants will be invited in week 14 (April
3-7, 2017) to an interview in the frame of the \Ham-
burg Biofuture Career Days 2017". Severely disabled
applicants will receive preference over equally qualied
non-disabled applicants. For further information, please
contact Prof. Bernhard Hausdorf or consult our website
at https://www.biologie.uni-hamburg.de/en/hybrids .
Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vi-
tae, and copies of degree certicate(s). The application
deadline is March 3,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKentucky
EvolutionInsecticideResistance
The Graduate Fellowship in Urban Entomology at the
University of Kentucky is funded from the Kentucky
Pest Management Association Scholarship Fund. The
Kentucky Pest Management Association has a long his-
tory of supporting the educational programs in the
Department of Entomology at the University of Ken-
tucky. This fellowship will support graduate research
in applied or fundamental aspects of urban/structural
pest management. The recipient of this Fellowship will
be expected to be open to participation in the exten-
sion Urban Entomology programs in the Department of
Entomology.
Research supported by this fellowship may be in the
following areas: - Population Genetics and Evolution of
Insecticide Resistance in Bed Bugs - Ecology and Man-
agement of Bed Bugs in Urban Environments - Urban
Arthropod Biology, Ecology, and Behavior - IPM in the
Urban Environment
*Stipend*: The Fellowship includes a stipend of $20,000,
full tuition, and health benets. In 2017, one Graduate
Fellowship in Urban Entomology is available for a Ph.D.
student entering the Graduate Program in Entomology
starting in August 2017 will be awarded. The Fellow-
ship is renewable for up to four years, depending on
satisfactory performance.*Qualications*: B.S. or M.S. in entomology or the
biological sciences with an academic record demonstrat-
ing outstanding accomplishments and interest in urban
entomology.
*Application Deadline*: The deadline for applications
for this Graduate Fellowship is March 15, 2017. Ap-
plicants must have applied to the graduate program in
Entomology at the University of Kentucky by this date.
*Application Procedure*: To be considered for this Fel-
lowship, please Email (rpalli@uky.edu) a letter that ad-
dresses your background and interests in one of the areas
listed, transcripts, GRE scores and arrange to send two
letters of recommendation to the same Email address.
A selection committee that includes a member of the
Kentucky Pest Management Educational Fund Commit-
tee will review applications and selects the winner. The
selected candidate will be admitted into Entomology
graduate program after going through the formal appli-
cation process. The details on Entomology graduate pro-
gram are available at https://entomology.ca.uky.edu/-
academics/graduate . *Additional Information*: Subba
Reddy Palli, Chair, Department of Entomology, Uni-
versity of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40546 USA E-mail:
rpalli@uky.edu PH: 859-257-7450
{ Dr. Charles W. Fox Professor and Director of Graduate
Studies Department of Entomology University of Ken-
tucky Lexington, KY 40546-0091 phone: 859-257-7474
e-mail: cfox@uky.edu web: www.uky.edu/ ~cfox Charles
Fox<cfox@uky.edu >
UMeaU ForestGenetics
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Sci-
ence (EMG), Ume ~A ¥Plant Science Center (UPSC)
and the Swedish Forest Research Institute (Skogforsk)
jointly open a 5-year PhD position within the industrial
graduate student research school in forest genetics and
biotechnology at UPSC. Application deadline is 10th
March, 2017.
Project description The future supply of biomass will
come mostly from planted forests. In Sweden, almost
all the regeneration material used in pine and spruce
reforestation are supplied by tree breeding programs and
seed orchards. It is thus critical that seed orchards func-
tion well, producing high seed yield and breeding gain
but also a genetic base to support increased biomass
production and resilience to future conditions. This
project investigates: 1) how seed orchard design and40 EvolDir March 1, 2017
management practices aect the genetic composition
and diversity of seed crops; and 2) how seed orchard
establishment and seed deployment strategy aect pine
and spruce forests ^A adaptation and productivity in their
northern range.
This project is in close collaboration with Skogforsk.
The position is for 5 years and dened as 80% research
time at EMG, Ume ~A ¥University, and 20% at Skog-
forsk.
Qualications We seek a candidate with academic
background in population genetics, forest genetics and
breeding, or molecular ecology. Knowledge of genetic
data analyses, bioinformatics, and experience of high-
throughput sequencing techniques are strong merits.
The candidate should be highly motivated, independent
and collaborative, and have a very good command in
both oral and written English. The position includes in-
teractions with the Swedish forestry sector. Evaluation
will be based on the individual letter, quality and rele-
vance of master program and publication, the interview,
and the candidate's performance in a literature essay
given after the interview.
Prerequisites for PhD studies include 240 ECTS credits
of higher education studies of which 60 ECTS cred-
its should be on an advanced level (Master level), or
an equivalent qualication from abroad. This position
specically requires 120 ECTS credits in a subject rele-
vant for ecology.
Application The application should include: . A short
letter (max 2 pages) describing your research interests
and why you are interested in the position . CV, in-
cluding academic achievements . Digital copies of Bach-
elor/Master thesis . publications . Certicates from
higher education and other documentation that sup-
ports your application . Contact information to three
reference persons.
Your application must be registered in Ume ~A ¥Univer-
sity's e-recruitment system MyNetwork Pro (at http:/-
/www.umu.se/om-universitetet/lediga-jobb/) no later
than 10th March 2017.
Other information The principle supervisors to this
project are Prof. Xiao-Ru Wang (xiao-ru.wang@umu.se)
from EMG, and Prof. Bengt Andersson Gull
(bengt.anderssongull@skogforsk.se) from Skogforsk.
Salary: According to agreements for PhD students at
Ume ~A ¥University.
The Department of Ecology and Environment Sciences,
Ume ~A ¥University, performs research and research ed-
ucation in ecology, environmental science and physical
geography. The department has ~150 co-workers ofwhich ~30 are PhD students. (www.emg.umu.se)
Skogforsk is funded by the forest industry and the state.
The demand-driven applied research includes a wide
variety of elds, such as forest technology, raw-material
utilization, environmental impact and conservation, for-
est tree breeding, logistics, forest bioenergy and silvicul-
ture. The institute has about 120 employees, of which
80 are researchers. (www.skogforsk.se)
Xiao-Ru Wang, PhD Dept. of Ecology and Environ-
mental Science Ume ~A ¥Univeristy SE-901 87 Ume ~A ¥,
Sweden xiao-ru.wang@umu.se
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >
UmeaU PlantLandscapeGenetics
PhD student position (4 years) in Ecology with focus
on landscape genetics of plant communities in river
networks
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Science
invites applicants for a PhD student position within the
project \Network breakdown? The eect of fragmenta-
tion by dams on plant communities in river networks"
funded by Formas. The position is planned to begin in
spring 2017. Apply before March 17, 2017.
Project description This project integrates genomic
methods and ecological modelling to assess the eect
of landscapes on evolutionary processes. We use recent
conceptual and methodological advances in genetics and
spatial ecology to study patterns in gene ow and how
this is inuenced by landscape structure and obstruc-
tion of dispersal pathways by land-use activities. The
project will use genetic markers to infer how dispersal
of riverine plants has been aected by dams in regu-
lated rivers. We will also evaluate the distribution of
genetic diversity along the river course in selected plant
species. We test (1) whether dams are barriers to plant
dispersal, resulting in isolated populations with higher
genetic dierentiation between sites separated by dams
than between populations in the same impoundment
or among sites in free-owing rivers, and (2) whether
the downstream increase in genetic diversity of riverine
plants documented in many species is absent or less
pronounced in rivers fragmented by dams. The results
of the project will help manage regulated rivers with
the aim to conserve riverine plant communities.
Qualications We seek a candidate with relevant aca-
demic background (genetics, ecology, or equivalent sub-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 41
ject). Earlier experience of population genetic analyses,
high throughput genotyping methods and knowledge
of bioinformatics are merits. The candidate should be
creative, show initiative, independence and good social
skills, and have a very good command in both oral and
written English. Evaluation will be based on the indi-
vidual letter, quality and relevance of master program
and publication, the interview, and the candidate's per-
formance in a literature essay given after the interview.
Prerequisites for PhD studies include 240 ECTS credits
of higher education studies of which 60 should be on an
advanced level (Master level), or an equivalent quali-
cation from abroad. This position specically requires
120 ECTS credits in a subject relevant for ecology.
Application The application should include: . A short
letter (max 2 pages) describing your research interests
and why you are interested in the position . CV, in-
cluding academic achievements . Digital copies of Bach-
elor/Master thesis . publications . Certicates from
higher education and other documentation that sup-
ports your application . Contact information to three
reference persons.
Your application must be registered in Ume ~A ¥Univer-
sity's e-recruitment system MyNetwork Pro (at http:/-
/www.umu.se/om-universitetet/lediga-jobb/) no later
than 17th March 2017.
Other information The PhD student will be advised
by Xiao-Ru Wang (head supervisor) and Roland Jans-
son (assistant supervisor). Contact Roland Jansson,
tel +4690-786 9573, e-mail roland.jansson@umu.se,
or Xiao-Ru Wang, tel+4690-786 9955, e-mail xiao-
ru.wang@umu.se for more information.
Salary: According to agreements for PhD students at
Ume ~A ¥University.
The Department of Ecology and Environment Science,
Ume ~A ¥University, performs research and research ed-
ucation in ecology, environmental science and physical
geography. The department has ~150 co-workers of
which ~30 are PhD students. (www.emg.umu.se)
Xiao-Ru Wang, PhD Dept. of Ecology and Environ-
mental Science Ume ~A ¥Univeristy SE-901 87 Ume ~A ¥,
Sweden
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >UNewBrunswick StJohn
PopulationEcol
Ph. D. position with Je Houlahan's lab in the De-
partment of Biological Sciences/The Canadian Rivers
Institute, University of New Brunswick Saint John (UNB
Saint John).
The Houlahan lab is looking for a Ph.D. student inter-
ested in fundamental questions in population and/or
community ecology to begin in the fall of 2017 (although
later start dates could be negotiated). We are including
evolutionary biologists in our target audience because
(1) they often bring the set of quantitative skills that
we're looking for and (2) we would be happy to address
evolutionary questions that have explicit ecological im-
plications. We are seeking students with a wide range of
interests - some examples of topics include (i) the rela-
tionship between diversity and stability, (ii) the relative
importance of density dependent eects on population
dynamics, and (iii) the stability of competitive hierar-
chies in nature but we are less concerned about the
question than the approach. The approach would in-
volve developing theoretical and/or statistical models
that would then be tested on new data (see Houlahan
et al. 2017 in Oikos) to assess the predictive ability of
those models and how predictive ability changes over
time and space.
The successful applicant will have strong quantitative
skills, and more particularly, be somebody who is com-
fortable analyzing data and modeling in something like
R or Python. Students will have an opportunity to im-
prove their analytical and modeling skills, become better
grounded in basic ecology theory, and improve writing,
logical thinking and problem-solving abilities. We are in-
terested in ecology, evolutionary biology, environmental
science, computer science and/or mathematics students.
Funding of at least $21,000/year is guaranteed for 4
years and comes from TA'ships, RA'ships and scholar-
ships.
The University of New Brunswick is a comprehensive
university with campuses in Saint John and Fredericton,
New Brunswick, Canada with approximately 10,000 stu-
dents. The Houlahan lab is part of the Department of
Biological Sciences and The Canadian Rivers Institute
at the Saint John campus. This is a vibrant depart-
ment with a focus on aquatic and marine biology and
more than 50 graduate students. Saint John is a small42 EvolDir March 1, 2017
(pop - 68,000) attractive, coastal city in southern New
Brunswick.
If you are interested in the position drop me a note at
jehoul@unb.ca and attach your cv, transcripts (uno-
cial or ocial) and 3 references with contact info.
Expiry date: July 1, 2017.
Je Houlahan <jehoul@unb.ca >
UNorthDakota
BisonGeneticsEvolution
The project studies the historic, current, and future
status of bison herds from biological, archaeological,
and cultural perspectives and includes the analysis of
modern and ancient bison DNA.
U. North Dakota. AncientModernBisonGenetics.
The Laboratory of Human and Forensic Genetics at
the University of North Dakota (www.und.edu) is invit-
ing applications from potential graduate students who
pursue the MS degree. PhD candidates will be also
considered.
A student will be engaged to a project on the historic,
current and future status of bison herds from biological,
archaeological, and cultural perspectives. It is a collab-
orative eort with Theodore Roosevelt National Park
(THRO). This cross-disciplinary project represents an
opportunity to get intensive training in the methods
of ancient and modern DNA analyses including DNA
isolation from a variety of tissues, next-generation and
traditional sequencing, quality control of DNA tem-
plates, and bioinformatics. Genetic, phylogenetic, and
demographic studies of extirpated and extant bison spec-
imens will be used to generate important insights for
management of bison at THRO and other locations
throughout the Midwest.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard lab-
oratory work and strong interest in molecular genetics
and evolution. Preference will be given to students with
a proven record of molecular biology skills.
Additional experience in bioinformatics is a plus.
If you are interested you need to apply to the University
of North Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the
regular procedure that can be found in the UND Grad-
uate School website: http://graduateschool.und.edu/-
future-students/apply.cfm The additional informationcan be also found in the Biology Department web-
site: http://arts-sciences.und.edu/biology/graduate/-
programs.cfm The position starts in Summer or Fall
2017. To receive full consideration, applications and
required materials should be received by the Biology
Graduate Program by February 15, 2017.
Potential graduate students are strongly encouraged
to make contact with Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov. Con-
tact information: Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Pro-
fessor Lab. of Human and Forensic Genetics Depart-
ment of Biology University of North Dakota Email:
igor.ovtchinnikov@email.und.edu Thank you.
Igor Ovchinnikov
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of
Human and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology
Forensic Science Program University of North Dakota
10 Cornell Street Grand Forks, ND 58202 Phone (oce):
(701) 777-4471 Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@email.und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@email.und.edu >
UPittsburgh EvolutionaryEcol
PhD positions in Evolutionary Ecology
The Turcotte Lab at the University of Pittsburgh is
looking for PhD students to experimentally test the
dynamic interplay between rapid evolution and com-
munity ecology in the eld. Using various plant and
insect study systems and complementary approaches,
including experimental evolution, modeling, and genetic
analyses, we test cutting-edge hypotheses in Evolution-
ary Ecology. We are especially interested in testing
how rapid phenotypic changes, both plastic and evo-
lutionary, impact concurrent ecological dynamics and
species interactions. The aim of the lab is to disentangle
and quantify how ecological and evolutionary processes
reciprocally impact each other and understand their
importance in nature.
Please visit the lab webpage for more information:
www.martinturcotte.net The University of Pittsburgh
is a leading research university and the|Department of
Biological Sciences|is a dynamic and growing team of
enthusiastic researchers and educators. The department
also runs the|Pymatuning Lab of Ecology,|which is
equipped with lab space and housing to facilitate eld-
based research in northwestern Pennsylvania.|The City
of Pittsburgh is a vibrant and beautiful place to live. It
is often voted the 'Most Livable city in the U.S.'. AllMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 43
graduate students in the department are provided with
a competitive stipend and benets for 5 years through
a combination of fellowships, TAships, and research as-
sistantships. Although funding from the lab itself is
available, I expect all prospective students to apply for
external funding.
Prospective students should email me (tur-
cotte@pitt.edu) with a short paragraph stating
why you are interested in the lab and describe your
past research experience. Please include your C.V.,
any publications, and contact information for a few
references.
Martin Turcotte, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Department
of Biological Sciences University of Pittsburgh
www.martinturcotte.net turcotte@pitt.edu
204A Clapp Hall, 4249 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA
15260,|USA||
\TURCOTTE@pitt.edu" <TURCOTTE@pitt.edu >
Uppsala TwoPositions
EvolutionaryEcology
Uppsala University hereby invites applications for 2
Ph.D. positions in Animal Ecology at the Department
of Ecology and Genetics, Evolutionary Biology Centre
(EBC) with an application deadline of March 15.
Position 1: The Evolution of Adaptive Epigenetic Inher-
itance, in the lab of Dr. Martin Lind Position 2: Causes
and Consequences of Variation in Mutation Rate, in the
lab of Dr. David Berger
The two advertised positions are independent. Appli-
cants that are interested in both positions should submit
two separate applications.
#####
POSITION 1 - The Evolution of Adaptive Epigenetic In-
heritance The belief that the genetic code is the sole basis
for biological inheritance has been challenged by the
discovery of trans-generational epigenetic inheritance,
where environmentally induced phenotypes are inherited
for several generations by factors that determine how
DNA is read. However, the adaptive signicance of a
complementary inheritance system that is induced by
the environment is enigmatic.
The applicant will investigate the evolution of adaptive
epigenetic and trans-generational inheritance duringadaptation to new environments (high or uctuating
temperature) in the powerful laboratory Caenorhabditis
remanei nematode model system. We will use a com-
bination of experimental evolution, trans-generational
phenotypic assays of life history traits (tness, growth,
development, lifespan) and gene expression approaches,
including analyses of already existing lines. The project
is supported by a grant from the Swedish research Coun-
cil (VR).
The applicant will join the lab of Dr. Martin Lind,
and be part of the well-equipped nematode lab, at the
moment led by three PIs (Dr. Lind, Dr. Bolund, Dr.
Maklakov) interested in life-history evolution, inheri-
tance, ageing and sexual selection.
Qualications: A relevant master degree or equivalent
in evolutionary biology, genetics, ecology or a related
eld. We are looking for you who are motivated, highly
reliable, driven and well-organised, and have a broad
interest in evolutionary biology. It is desirable if you
have experience of laboratory work and/or animal hus-
bandry (of any organism). Because the holder of this
position will interact closely with other lab members,
we put emphasis on personal ability, independence and
ability to collaborate. You should have the capacity to
express yourself well in speech and writing in English.
#####
POSITION 2: Causes and Consequences of Variation in
Mutation Rate Variation in mutation rate is a pivotal
determinant of rates of adaptation and extinction and
a causative agent in human health problems, including
ageing, cancer, and genetic disease. Mutation rate has
typically been treated as an invariable species-specic
parameter but this view has recently been challenged
by studies showing that mutation rate can vary with
health, nutritional state, sex, and age. The evolutionary
causes and consequences of this variation remain largely
unexplored and the successful applicant will take an
experimental approach to understand among-individual
variation in mutation rate with the overarching aim to
explore how this variation may inuence evolution in
novel environments.
The research will take advantage of the nished genome
assembly of the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus,
potentially combined with experiments on other avail-
able laboratory study systems such as butteries, fruit
ies and nematode worms. The successful candidate will
employ experimental evolution and/or mutation accu-
mulation approaches in combination with comparative
analysis of quantitative genetic and genomic data.
The candidate will work in direct association with one
PI (Dr. David Berger, main supervisor) and share lab44 EvolDir March 1, 2017
space with members of Prof. G oran Arnqvist's group,
with whom interactions and collaborations are encour-
aged. Currently, the beetle lab consists of 10 members
working on various aspects of life history evolution, sex-
ual selection, and evolutionary genetics. The position is
funded by the Swedish Research Council (VR).
Qualications: We seek a highly motivated and enthusi-
astic person with a broad interest in evolutionary biology.
Experience in quantitative/molecular/population genet-
ics, or in life history- and sexual selection theory, is
an advantage, but not a requirement. Experience of
laboratory work or in using statistical software (e.g. R,
SAS, Mathematica, Python) is also a merit. Because the
holder of this position will interact closely with other lab
members, we will put emphasis on both independence
and ability to collaborate. The applicant is expected to
be uent in English.
#####
THE INFORMATION BELOW ALLPIES TO BOTH
POSITIONS
WORKING PLACE: EBC hosts one of the world's
largest aggregations of evolutionary biologists. The
Department of Ecology and Genetics is an international
environment with sta and students from all over the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGenetics
Dear colleagues,
I have a PhD position available to work on genome
structure evolution in birds-of-paradise. The position is
fully funded (4 years) and located at the Department of
Evolutionary Biology (EBC), Uppsala University, Swe-
den. Application deadline March 01. More information
here: https://uu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:132812/where:4/ Thanks and best wishes, Alex
\alexander.suh@ebc.uu.se" <alexander.suh@ebc.uu.se >UppsalaU Sweden Systematic
Biology
PhD student in systematic biology, within mycology
A position as a PhD student working with the evo-
lution of ectomycorrhizal fungi is available in Martin
Ryberg's group at Uppsala University, Sweden. Dead-
line for application is February 28, and the full add
and link to application system is available at: http://-
uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=130647
To be eligible for a PhD-student position the applicant
must hold a master degree (or equivalent) in a rele-
vant eld. The ideal candidate is highly motivated with
education/experience in mycology, bioinformatics, phy-
logenetics and/or molecular lab-work. Candidates must
be uent in English.
martin.ryberg@ebc.uu.se
USalzburg
BulbophyllumTraitEvolution
THREE-YEAR PHD POSITION IN PLANT EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY
A Ph.D. position in Plant Evolutionary Biology is avail-
able at the Dept. of Ecology and Evolution, Division
of Plant Ecology, Diversity & Evolution, University
of Salzburg, Austria, with Prof. Hans Peter Comes
and Dr. Alexander Gamisch to study the tempo and
mode of trait evolution and lineage diversication in a
species-rich orchid (Bulbophyllum ) clade endemic to
Madagascar and adjacent islands.
The overall aim of this research project is to investigate
the temporal stages of evolution in various trait com-
plexes that likely had a major role in the group&rsquo;s
radiation. Specically, this involves (1) the comple-
tion of a time-calibrated and well-sampled multi-gene
phylogeny of Madagascan Bulbophyllum : (2) the gath-
ering of new datasets comprising variation in four suites
of traits (i.e. macro-ecological habitat, photosynthetic
pathway, ower morphology/shape and oral scent);
and (3) the tting of various macro-evolutionary mod-
els of lineage diversication, trait evolution, and trait-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 45
dependent diversication to the trait data and/or the
molecular phylogeny.
The successful candidate will closely co-operate with
the project postdoc (Dr. Gamisch) and will be
mostly responsible for (1) gathering and analysing
data of the orchids&rsquo; three-dimensional (3D)
ower morphology, using X-ray micro-computed to-
mography and landmark-based geometric morphomet-
rics (in co-operation with Prof. Dr. J&uuml;rg
Sch&ouml;nenberger/Vienna); and (2) collecting and
analysing oral scent samples by means of gas chro-
matography/mass spectroscopy (in co-operation with
Prof. Dr. Stefan D&ouml;tterl/Salzburg). The candi-
date is further expected to assist in routine molecular
work and in the comparative phylogenetic analyses, and
also has the opportunity to participate in eld work in
Madagascar.
The ideal applicant has a genuine interest in plant evo-
lution and a strong background in at least one of the
following elds of research: a) oral morphometrics; b)
chemical ecology/analytical chemistry; and/or c) molec-
ular phylogenetics. Apart from short research stays at
the University of Vienna, eldwork in remote places
of Madagascar is required. Accordingly, the successful
candidate should be willing to travel and have physical
tness to perform eld research under tropical rainforest
conditions. An MSc, diploma degree or equivalent in
Botany, Ecology, Genetics or Evolutionary Biology is
required. Fluent English is a must and French as sec-
ond language would be an advantage. German is not
mandatory.
The position is starting April 1, 2017, with funding for
three years by the Austrian Science Fund (FWF). The
monthly gross salary is c. 2045 EUR paid 14 times
a year. The University of Salzburg ( http://www.uni-
salzburg.at/ ) oers excellent facilities, and a very pleas-
ant working and living environment in one of the most
beautiful landscapes in Austria.
Please send (if possible via email) a letter of application
together with a full CV, a copy of your master/diploma
certicate, and the addresses of two referees (all merged
into a single pdf) to:
Prof. Hans Peter Comes
Department of Ecology and Evolution
division of Plant Ecology, Diversity & Evolution
Paris-Lodron-University Salzburg
Hellbrunnerstr. 34, A-5022 Salzburg
Austria
Tel.: ++ 43 (0) 662 8044-5505Fax: ++43 (0) 8044-142
Email: peter.comes@sbg.ac.at
UPDATE: We will be considering applications until 15
March 2017.
\AlexanderGamisch@gmx.at"
<AlexanderGamisch@gmx.at >
USDA BatonRouge
EvolutionBeeVirus
Graduate Assistantships on Pollinator Health The Healy
<http://entomology.lsu.edu/healy.html >laboratory is
currently seeking a graduate student (MS or PhD) inter-
ested in evaluating the epidemiology of deformed wing
virus on honey bees. This project will involve working
in a team at LSU with partners from the USDA Honey
Bee Research laboratory in Baton Rouge. The goal
of this study will be to evaluate dierent transmission
dynamics of the virus to honey bees. Contact Kristen
Healy (KHealy@agcenter.lsu.edu).
The Swale <http://entomology.lsu.edu/swale.html >
laboratory is currently seeking a PhD student to con-
duct physiology based studies evaluating the impacts
of dierent stressors (pathogens, pesticides, mites, nu-
trition, climate) on honey bee health. This research
will be in collaboration with partners from LSU and the
USDA Honey Bee Research laboratory in Baton Rouge.
Contact Dan Swale (DSwale@agcenter.lsu.edu).
Project Leader - Honey bees (will be lled either at the
Master's or PhD level)
POSITION DESCRIPTION: Funding is available for
a project leader (Masters or PhD level) in the area of
honey bee health and mortality. The successful appli-
cant will coordinate and conduct research as part of
a longitudinal study on honey bee health being con-
ducted at the Louisiana State University, Department
of Entomology. Objectives of this study are to under-
stand the epidemiology of deformed wing virus to honey
bees, to evaluate various stressors aecting the health
of commercially managed honey bees, and to evaluate
dierent extension-based methodologies to improve out-
comes in managed honey bees. The successful applicant
will be required to assist in eld data collection in out-
of-state study sites (approximately 12 sampling trips
over 2 years), in California, South Dakota, and Missis-
sippi. The successful candidate will work closely with
the USDA-ARS Honey Bee Breeding, Genetics, and46 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Physiology Laboratory in Baton Rouge, who are collab-
orators in this project. Successful applicant is expected
to assist with eld and lab work, data management,
manuscript writing, and giving presentations at annual
meetings. Exploration of avenues for associated projects
will be encouraged.
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Experience
working with honey bees is preferred. Advanced de-
gree in Entomology or related discipline (Masters or
PhD level) is required for this position.
SALARY AND BENEFITS: Salary will be commen-
surate with qualications and experience. The LSU
AgCenter has an attractive benets package with a wide
variety of benet options. Benets oered include retire-
ment, multiple medical insurance options, supplemental
insurances (dental, life, long-term disability, accident,
vision, long-term care, etc.), Tax Saver Flexible Benets
Plan (saves tax dollars on some child care and medical
expenses), university holidays (14 per year, typically
includes a week o at Christmas), generous annual (va-
cation) and sick leave benets, Employee Assistance
Program, and possible educational leave and tuition ex-
emption for coursework at campuses of the LSU System.
Specic benets depend on job category, percent eort
and length of employment.
DATE AVAILABLE AND DURATION: Position is
available this spring. Duration is approximately 3 years.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: February 24, 2017 or until
a suitable candidate is identied.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Must apply online at
https://lsu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/LSU by attaching
cover letter with resume, transcripts, and two letters
of recommendation. In lieu of attaching the letters on-
line, they may be sent directly to contact listed below.
(Paper, faxed or e-mailed application materials will not
be accepted.) For more information contact: Kristen
Healy (KHealy@agcenter.lsu.edu; (225) 578-7386).
Michael Simone-Finstrom Research Molecular Biolo-
gist USDA-ARS Honey Bee Breeding, Genetics, and
Physiology Research <http://www.ars.usda.gov/main/-
sitemain.htm?modecode=60-50-05-00 >1157 Ben Hur
Rd Baton Rouge, LA, 70820
Phone: (225) 767-9293
\SimoneFinstrom, Michael - ARS"
<Michael.SimoneFinstrom@ARS.USDA.GOV >USouthBohemia CzechRepublic
ProtistEvolution
Laboratory of Evolutionary Protistology at the Uni-
versity of South-Bohemia, Czech Republic, is looking
for Ph.D. students with interest in evolution of single
celled eukaryotes. Creativity and initiative are essential;
the successful applicant will demonstrate dedication to
leading this work while being part of a multidisciplinary
team and will work with other specialists in the Pro-
gramme including wet lab scientists, data analysts and
statisticians, so teamwork and a collaborative ethos are
required.
Requirements - Interest in molecular biology research
- Master's degree (or being close to its completion) in
molecular biology, biochemistry or in other related eld
of life sciences. - Hands-on experience with basic tech-
niques of molecular biology and biochemistry such west-
ern blotting, PCR, cloning. - Good communication and
interpersonal skills and uency in spoken and written
English.
Our laboratory is aimed at studying molecular evolu-
tion of microeukaryotes, mainly those that have been
involved in complex plastid endosymbiosis. The main
objects of our research are Chromerids Chromera velia
and Vitrella brassicaformis, alveolate algae isolated from
Australian stony corals and relatives to apicomplexan
parasites.
We are interested in evolution of the heme biosynthetic
pathway, particularly in origins of involved enzymes and
their intracellular localizations. We focus mainly on
algae that have passed through a process of secondary
endosymbiosis.
Other information: The Institute of Parasitology is part
of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. It
was established in Prague in 1962, but was relocated
to~Aeske Bud ~Ajovice in South Bohemia in 1985. It is
the principal institution in the Czech Republic devoted
exclusively to parasitological research. The Institute
performs research on human and animal parasites at the
organismal, cellular and molecular levels. Its mission
is to acquire, advance, and disseminate knowledge of
the biology and host relationships of parasitic protist
and related eukaryotic microorganisms, helminths, and
arthropod-borne infectious agents. The Institute pur-
sues this goal through research, education and other
activities at both the national and international levels.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 47
The results obtained have contributed to the prevention
and control of human and animal parasitic diseases and
have an impact on agriculture.
The Institute is located in South Bohemia University
Campus. To help students and researchers to develop
their skills and networks, the Institute hosts a range
of scientic seminars with internal and invited speak-
ers, scientic group meetings and skills development
workshops. Our Benets include: Dened Contribution
Pension Scheme, Healthcare scheme, Childcare Vouch-
ers, Workplace Nursery and 25 days Annual Leave, in-
creasing by one day per year up to a maximum of 30,
plus Bank Holidays. We also have a cafe, dining fa-
cilities. Our thriving Sports and Social Club provides
many opportunities to meet with people working across
the campus. Also, Czech republic ranks in the top 10
best countries in the world for expats to live in (Expat
Insider).
Our Institute welcomes applications from all candidates
irrespective of age, disability, gender, gender identity,
sexual orientation, race, religion or belief, or marital or
civil partnership status.
Please send your CV and short statement of research
background/interests by email to the head of the group
Prof. Miroslav Obornik: obornik@paru.cas.cz
Zolt an F ussy <zoltan.fussy@gmail.com >USouthernMississippi
FishPopulationGenomics
A graduate assistant position (M.S. or Ph.D) is avail-
able in our laboratory to work on population genet-
ics/genomics of reef shes exploited in the Gulf of Mex-
ico region. Current lab projects include exploitation
of RAD-Tag sequencing data to generate linkage maps
and/or analyze spatial genetic variation and popula-
tion structure with application to the management of
aquaculture programs and sheries conservation.
The successful applicant will be provided a 12-month
full-time Research Assistantship with a tuition waiver.
Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree in a rele-
vant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology & evolutionary biology,
Fisheries science, GPA >3.5) when applying for this
position. Skills in programming/script-writing and ex-
perience with molecular techniques are strong assets.
The position is available starting fall 2017.
Interested individuals should send a CV, GRE scores,
and unocial transcripts to:
Eric Saillant, Ph.D Associate Professor Department of
Coastal Sciences The University of Southern Mississippi
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory 703 East Beach Drive
Ocean Springs, MS, 39564 Tel. (1) 228-818-8007 Fax
(1) 228-872-4204 E-mail: eric.saillant@usm.edu
Eric Saillant <eric.saillant@usm.edu >
Jobs48 EvolDir March 1, 2017
AmherstCollege ResAssist EvolDiseaseGenomics . . .48
CornellU FieldAssist PlantPollinatorEvolution . . . . .48
DukeU Summer Undergrad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Germany Evo-BoGa PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
HunterCollege CUNY TeachingHumanEvolution . . .51
MichiganStateU FishFacilityManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
MichiganStateU GeneticsAdapationTechnician . . . . .53
MichiganStateU ResLabTech NervousSystemEvol . .53
MNH Florida CuratorAmphibiansReptiles . . . . . . . . . 54
NHM UDenmark PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
NorthCarolinaStateU EvolutionPlantDisease . . . . . . 56
Okinawa Shortterm TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
RutgersU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Smithsonian PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Smithsonian ResAssist EvolutionBehavior . . . . . . . . . 59
SouthAfrica ResearchManager StripedMouse . . . . . . 59
UCalgary ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
UCalifornia Berkeley ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 62UCalifornia LosAngeles ResTech PlantEvolGenomics 63
UCatolicadeChile 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UdelosAndes Colombia EvolutionaryMicrobiology . 64
UExeter EvolutionaryBiosciences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UExeter FieldAssist SpainWasps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UFlorida BeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UGeorgia TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UIllinois Chicago TeachingEcolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 67
UIllinois UC LabTech EvolutionaryImmunology . . . 68
UNebraska TeachingBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UOulu EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UPittsburgh ResTech EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . 70
URochester LabTech EvolMolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
USydney 2 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UZurich MorphologicalVariability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Worcester Mass ResAssoc DrosophilaMolEvol . . . . . 72
ZFMK UBonn EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
AmherstCollege ResAssist
EvolDiseaseGenomics
RESEARCH ASSISTANT POSITION EVOLUTION-
ARY ECOLOGY OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE
The Hood Lab (https://www.amherst.edu/people/-
facsta/mhood) in the Biology Department at Amherst
College is seeking to ll a full-time research assistant
position. The position is for one year, and there is the
possibility to reappointment for a second year. Ongoing
projects address the evolutionary ecology of infectious
disease in natural plant populations and evolutionary
genomics of the pathogen's mating compatibility genes.
Activities in this lab span a wide range of approaches,
including molecular genetics, population biology, and
greenhouse/eld work. The research assistant will gain
experience and participate in each of these activities as
well as in general lab maintenance and operation. Start
date will be as early as April, 2017.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in biology or related
eld, previous laboratory experience, and motivation to
engage in biology research are expected.
To apply online, please visit our web site at https:/-
/jobs.amherst.edu and https://apply.interfolio.com/-
40429 Amherst College is an equal opportunity employer
and encourages women, persons of color, and persons
with disabilities to apply. The College is committed
to enriching its educational experience and its culture
through the diversity of its faculty, administration, andsta.
Michael E. Hood Associate Professor Biology Depart-
ment Amherst College Amherst, MA USA 01002-5000
ph (413) 542-8538 email: MHood@amherst.edu https:/-
/www.amherst.edu/people/facsta/mhood Michael
Hood<mhood@amherst.edu >
CornellU FieldAssist
PlantPollinatorEvolution
The Geber lab at Cornell University seeks a highly mo-
tivated, detail-oriented assistant for summer 2017 eld
research in the southern Sierra Nevada (May-July) and
lab work in Ithaca, NY (July-August). We are studying
four species of annual plants in the genus Clarkia and
their specialist bee pollinators. Our research focuses on
how pollinators may impact plant species evolution and
coexistence.
Our research sites are located in the Kern River Canyon
in Kern County, California. The lab rents a house on
a property where other labs working in this system are
also based in the summer. This eld assistant would
have a private bedroom, access to a shared bathroom
and a communal kitchen, and wireless Internet access.
Frequent trips are made into town (Lake Isabella and
Kernville) for groceries and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection, data entry, and ower, seed, and bee collectionMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 49
in the eld; work in Ithaca will consist of sample process-
ing and data analysis. The assistant will work a 39-hour
workweek. Weather conditions in the Sierras can be
very hot and dry (100+ degrees F) in the summer, so
assistants should be prepared to work in hot conditions.
Applicants must be able to hike up and steep hills for
up to 1 mile at a time, stoop or kneel for extended peri-
ods of time, and work in proximity to bees and snakes.
The work can be very physically demanding and tiring,
and the research team typically collects data 7 days a
week. A good sense of humor and a positive attitude
are essential.
Qualications: 1) Citizenship and availability: appli-
cants must be US citizens and must be available to
begin working in California as of May 1, 2017. The
exact end date of the position in late August is exible.
2) Education: some undergraduate education in biol-
ogy, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience
3) Experience: experience with and enthusiasm about
working outdoors, and/or previous eld research experi-
ence. Previous experience working with plants, bees, or
insects is preferable but not required. 4) Tasks: perform
repetitive tasks with attention to detail, daily hiking 5)
Personality: interpersonal skills and willingness to live
and work in close quarters with other researchers in a
house.
Compensation: transportation to and from California,
a private room with Internet access in the eld house,
and pay ( $13- $15 an hour depending on experience) will
be provided. Applicants will be responsible for securing
their own housing in Ithaca for July and August.
The deadline for applications is March 1, 2017. Appli-
cants should submit: 1) a short (1 page maximum) cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a resume or CV
outlining previous work experience and relevant courses
(completed or in progress), extracurricular activities;
and 3) contact information for two references.
Cornell University is an armative action/equal op-
portunity employer. Cornell University and we in the
Geber lab have a commitment to support equality of
education and employment opportunity by arming
the value of diversity. We welcome and encourage sci-
entists of all backgrounds to apply to work with us!
http://blogs.cornell.edu/geberlab/ Email to: Monica
Geber, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
mag9@cornell.edu
Katherine Eisen <kee39@cornell.edu >DukeU Summer Undergrad
The Patek Lab in the Biology Department at Duke
University is recruiting one high school and one un-
dergraduate student researcher through the US Army
Educational Outreach Program (AEOP) during the sum-
mer of 2017. The students will participate in projects
examining fast, impulsive movements of animals in the
natural environment. The focal systems for the project
are catapult jumping in froghopper insects and underwa-
ter foraging attacks in dragony larvae. Responsibilities
of the student researchers may include collecting study
organisms from local habitats, obtaining high-speed
videos of animals, analyzing high-speed videos using
computer software, performing statistical analyses and
scientic writing. The details of responsibilities and
tasks will be determined based on mutual interests of
the students and the mentors. There are also possi-
bilities for the students to develop individual projects
under our mentorship.
We are looking for motivated, reliable students who are
excited about having rst-hand research experience at
the intersection of biology and physics. Skills to perform
the above-mentioned tasks are not required. We espe-
cially value students who are curious, hard-working and
have an open mind about the possibilities of basic, sci-
entic research. For more information about The Patek
Lab, please visit our website: www.thepateklab.org
DEADLINE: February 28, 2017, 11:59 pm. All ap-
plicants must submit two letters of recommendation,
transcripts and must have maintained a cumulative GPA
of at least 3.2 in their coursework. Applicants must also
include a brief essay that explains their interest in this
research and how it relates to their future goals.
Go to the below links and:
Click \Apply" at the bottom of the page
* Fill out the forms
* When you get to \Please select your 1st preference of
URAP location.", Select \BDUN53 Duke University"
For high school students, please apply through the
HSAP program:
http://www.cvent.com/events/2017-high-school-
research-apprenticeship-pr ogram-hsap-/event-
summary-a0d910ce304c848b66358e0e028871.aspx
For undergraduate students, please apply through the50 EvolDir March 1, 2017
URAP program:
http://www.cvent.com/events/2017-undergraduate-
research-apprenticeship- program-urap-/event-
summary-ccf8d39466294c8391d60121495cfcdf.aspx
Chi-Yun Kuo Postdoctoral Associate Patek
Lab, Duke University Personal website https://-
pateklab.biology.duke.edu 919-613-0994
Chi-Yun Kuo <chi.yun.kuo@duke.edu >
Germany Evo-BoGa PlantEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
Please nd below three job announcements within the
Evo-BoGa project, an initiative of the Botanic Garden
and Botanical Museum Berlin, the Botanic Garden of
Heidelberg University, the Senckenberg Naturmuseum
Frankfurt and the Goethe University Frankfurt. The
project aims to establish a platform for the joint cura-
tion of living collections in Botanic Gardens in Germany
and to perform research on the evolution of selected
plant groups. We are looking for
- a full-time post-doctoral scientist (biology) performing
phylogenetic analysis in the Cactaceae family includ-
ing development of molecular markers using targeted
sequence capture. The position also includes the de-
velopment of strategies for the joint curation of living
collections in Botanic Gardens. The position is located
in Berlin.
- a part-time information scientist for the development
of a data portal that allows Botanic Gardens to jointly
curate their living collections while still using their own
databases. The position is located in Berlin.
- a part-time scientist (biology, \Promotionsstelle") per-
forming phylogenetic analysis in the Bromeliaceae family
and developing tools for quick and reliable identication
using DNA-based methods to support comprehensive
data management in living collections also between in-
stitutions. The position is located in Frankfurt and
Heidelberg.
A good command of the German language is expected
from the applicants.
Kind regards,
Eva H aner
Dr. Eva H aner Freie Universit at Berlin Science Pol-
icy Coordinator Botanischer Garten und BotanischesMuseum Berlin K onigin-Luise-Str. 6-8 14195 Berlin
Tel.: (030) 838 59964 Fax: (030) 838 4 59964 E-Mail:
e.haener@bgbm.org www.botanischer-garten-berlin.de
Stellenausschreibungen im Rahmen des BMBF-Projekts
\Panzensammlungen Botanischer G arten: Lebendige
Ressourcen f ur die integrative Evolutionsforschung"
F ur das Projekt \Panzensammlungen Botanischer
G arten: Lebendige Ressourcen f ur die integrative Evo-
lutionsforschung" suchen wir Unterst utzung. Das vom
Bundesministerium f ur Bildung und Forschung im
Rahmen des Programms \Universit are Sammlungen"
gef orderte Verbundprojekt hat zum Ziel, Strategien f ur
die Vernetzung von botanischen Lebendsammlungen un-
tereinander und mit komplement aren Sammlungstypen
(Herbarien) zu entwickeln und insbesondere die Lebend-
sammlungen f ur die Evolutionsforschung nutzbar zu
machen. Im Projektverbund soll exemplarisch an zwei
Panzengruppen -Bromelien und Kakteen - integrative
Evolutionsforschung betrieben sowie ein Datenbankpor-
tal zu Vernetzung von Lebendsammlungen entwickelt
werden. Das Projekt wird koordiniert vom Botanischen
Garten und Botanischen Museum an der Freien Univer-
sit at Berlin, weitere Projektbeteiligte sind der Botanis-
che Garten der Universit at Heidelberg, das Sencken-
berg Forschungsinstitut und Naturmuseum Frankfurt,
die Goethe-Universit at Frankfurt, sowie verschiedene
kooperierende Botanische G arten in Deutschland.
Wissenschaftliche Mitarbeiterin / Wissenschaftlicher Mi-
tarbeiter Ab sofort befristet bis zum 31.01.2020 Entgelt-
gruppe 13 TV-L FU mit 100% der Arbeitszeit
Aufgabengebiet: Phylogenetisch-evolutionsbiologische
Analyse der Artendiversit at ausgew ahlter Kakteengrup-
pen: Dies beinhaltet die Sichtung und Beprobung der
Lebendsammlungen in Botanischen G arten , die En-
twicklung neuer molekularer Marker mittels Targeted
Sequence Capture, die molekulare Charakterisierung
der Sammlungsobjekte anhand ausgew ahlter Marker
des Kern- und Chloroplastengenoms, die Ermittlung
von Chromosomenzahlen und Genomgr oen sowie die
vergleichende Analyse der erhobenen Datens atze.
Erarbeitung von Strategien f ur eine institutio-
nen ubergreifende Entwicklung der Panzensammlun-
gen als Ressource f ur Forschung und Artenschutz: Dies
beinhaltet die  ubergreifende Auswertung der Lebend-
sammlungen mit Fokus auf die Modellgruppen, die Vor-
bereitung und und Koordination von Workshops mit
den Kustod/innenen des Verbands Botanischer G arten
sowie internationalen Partnern, die Auswertung, Pub-
likation und Pr asentation der Ergebnisse sowie die Un-
terst utzung der Koordination des Verbundprojekts.
Einstellungsvoraussetzungen: Hochschulabschluss
(Bachelor/Master) in Biologie oder einem vergleich-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 51
baren Fachgebiet.
Erw unscht: Promotion in Systematischer Botanik oder
einem verwandten Fachgebiet Erfahrung mit moleku-
larbiologischen Methoden der Evolutionsforschung
(molekulare Marker, NGS) Erfahrung im Projektman-
agement Sehr gute Englischkenntnisse, ausgepr agte kom-
munikative F ahigkeiten und Freude an der Projektor-
ganisation und der Arbeit im Team mit Partnern un-
terschiedlicher Organisationen und Disziplinen, Spanis-
chkenntnisse.
Bereitschaft zu Dienstreisen innerhalb von Deutschland
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
HunterCollege CUNY
TeachingHumanEvolution
Hunter College
FACULTY VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT
The Human Biology Program at Hunter College seeks a
Lecturer in the eld of human biology, with expertise in
human adaptation, human variation, human behavioral
ecology, biocultural evolution, evolutionary medicine, or
a related eld. The main duty of the appointee will be
teaching multiple sections of the Human Biology Cap-
stone course each semester, as well as related teaching
functions, such as: advising Human Biology majors, and
developing and participating in Human Biology Program
events. The position includes service on programmatic,
departmental, divisional, and college committees. Some
evening or weekend responsibilities may be required.
The successful candidate will be expected to participate
in teaching development and scholarly activity. This
position has a teaching load of 27 credits per academic
year (nine 3-credit courses). Allocation for student ad-
vising will be counted towards the teaching load. This
is a full-time (9 month) position and we anticipate a
start date of Fall 2017. The position is \Certicate of
Continuing Employment" eligible after 5 years.
QUALIFICATIONS
A Ph.D. is required in anthropology, biology, human biol-
ogy, psychology, or a related eld. Also required are theability to teach successfully, demonstrated scholarship
or achievement, and ability to cooperate with others
for the good of the institution. We seek an individual
with a strong commitment to interdisciplinary teaching
and advising as well as an ability to work with diverse
student populations. Three years of teaching experience
is required. Ability to advise undergraduate students
and develop and participate in programs designed to
enhance the experience of Human Biology majors (ma-
jor exploration events, research fairs, etc.) is required.
The preferred candidate will have experience teaching
small, interdisciplinary, and/or seminar-style courses.
The preferred candidate will also have experience in un-
dergraduate advising and/or mentoring. Experience in
a college setting with diverse communities is preferred.
Ability to assist students in placements in or applica-
tions to independent research internships, eld schools,
etc. will also be valuable. We also seek commitment to
teaching initiatives, productive scholarship, and/or cre-
ative achievement and ability to cooperate with others
for the good of the institution.
COMPENSATION
Commensurate with experience.
CUNY oers faculty a competitive compensation and
benets package covering health insurance, pension and
retirement benets, paid parental leave, and savings
programs. We also provide mentoring and support for
research, scholarship, and publication as part of our
commitment to ongoing faculty professional develop-
ment.
HOW TO APPLY
>From our job posting system, select \Apply Now",
create or log in to a user account, and provide the re-
quested information. If you are viewing this posting
from outside our system, access the employment page
on our web site and search for this vacancy using the
Job ID or Title.
Candidates should submit the following items, combined
into a single document, with your on-line application:
1. Cover letter describing your approach to teaching
and your interest in undergraduate education, interdisci-
plinary studies, human biology, and student advisement.
2. Curriculum Vitae 3. Statement of Teaching Philoso-
phy (comments on advising are welcomed) 4. Teaching
Portfolio (including quantitative and qualitative teach-
ing evaluations if available) 5. Names and email and
postal addresses for at least three individuals familiar
with their teaching and scholarship who can be contacted
for recommendations. Inquires about the position can
also be directed to humbio.search@hunter.cuny.edu.
CLOSING DATE52 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Open until lled with review of applications to begin
March 13, 2017.
JOB SEARCH CATEGORY
CUNY Job Posting: Faculty
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
CUNY encourages people with disabilities, minorities,
veterans and women to apply. At CUNY, Italian Amer-
icans are also included among our protected groups.
Applicants and employees will not be discriminated
against on the basis of any legally protected cate-
gory, including sexual orientation or gender identity.
EEO/AA/Vet/Disability Employer.
Location: Hunter College
Job Title: Lecturer (Doctoral Schedule) - Human Biol-
ogy Program (School of Arts & Sciences)
Job ID: 16359
Full/Part Time: Full-Time
Regular/Temporary: Regular APPLY HERE:
http://cuny.jobs/new-york-ny/lecturer-doctoral-
schedule-human-biology-p rogram-school-of-arts-
sciences/3D1C642C094D4D758098BDB34CE83AE6/job/
Human Biology Program <humbio@hunter.cuny.edu >
MichiganStateU
FishFacilityManager
Research Technician Position/Fish Facility Manager
The Braasch and Ganz Laboratories in the Department
of Integrative Biology at Michigan State University
(https://integrativebiology.natsci.msu.edu/) are look-
ing to ll an immediate opening for the position of a
Research Technician to manage the joint sh facility of
the two groups.
This position is an opportunity to join an exciting and
diverse group of biologists focused on understanding
the genomic basis of vertebrate evolution, development
and disease using zebrash, medaka and other sh as
model organisms. The successful applicant will be in-
volved in exciting genetic developmental experiments to
study vertebrate genome evolution and nervous system
development in relation to human health and disease.
Minimum requirements: Knowledge equivalent to that
which normally would be acquired by completing a four-
year college degree program in biology or related eld;up to six months of related and progressively more
responsible or expansive work experience with sh hus-
bandry, including care of embryos, juveniles, and adult
sh; experience maintaining large numbers of aquaria
for freshwater sh; or an equivalent combination of edu-
cation and experience.
Desired qualications: Experience handling sh, feed-
ing and food preparation, husbandry related to sh
breeding, sh health control, and water quality man-
agement; must be absolutely dependable, with excellent
organization and communication skills; long-term expe-
rience with sh husbandry or aquaculture; knowledge
of zebrash/medaka biology, development, and genetics;
ability to take charge and oversee animal husbandry,
stock management, and quarantine operations; experi-
ence with large-scale, centralized sh husbandry systems;
a general familiarity with laboratory safety and campus
animal care policy and procedures, experience in train-
ing and supervising assistants in sh care and colony
maintenance; experience with use of various desktop
computer software including database management (Mi-
crosoft Oce, Dropbox, FileMaker Pro etc.); experience
with molecular methods (e.g. DNA extraction, PCR, gel
electrophoresis), immunohistochemistry, imaging, and
microinjections; be willing and able to perform duties
on some weekends and holidays on a rotating basis.
Job Summary: Primary responsibilities include main-
taining a colony of zebrash and medaka (up to 650
tanks and 10,000 sh total) including feeding and keep-
ing tanks and the sh rooms clean and in good work-
ing order, sh health assessment and quarantine pro-
cedures, water quality management. Fish system and
sh database management, ordering of supplies and
materials for the sh facility, training undergraduate
assistants and other lab members in sh husbandry,
interaction with the MSU Animal Care and Environ-
mental Health oces, and organization of sh import
and export from and to stock centers and other institu-
tions. Setup of genetic crosses and providing support
for ongoing experiments by tissue sampling, genotyping,
immunohistochemistry and imaging.
This is a full-time appointment, and oers excellent ben-
ets (healthcare, dental, etc.). The initial appointment
will be for a 6-month probationary period, after which
yearly reappointments will be made for successful and
productive candidates.
To apply please go to: https://jobs.msu.edu/ - Position
number: 4822
Closing date for applications is February 14, 2017.
| Dr. Ingo Braasch Fish Evo Devo Geno Lab Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology College of Natural ScienceMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 53
Michigan State University East Lansing, MI - USA
braasch@msu.edu
\Braasch, Ingo" <braasch@msu.edu >
MichiganStateU
GeneticsAdapationTechnician
The Lowry Lab at Michigan State University is currently
seeking to hire a eld research technician. The techni-
cian will be hired through the University of Texas, but
be stationed at the Kellogg Biological Station in Hickory
Corners, MI. The research will be focused on a large
collaborative project studying adaptation in the bioen-
ergy feedstock switchgrass. The research will utilize new
genetic mapping populations to identify genomic regions
responsible for adaptation between northern upland and
southern lowland ecotypes of switchgrass. These map-
ping populations have been planted at an unprecedented
geographical scale, spanning ten common garden eld
sites distributed over 17 degrees of latitude, making
them ideal for studies of regional adaptations. The
technician will be primarily responsible for maintain-
ing and gathering data from the switchgrass common
garden located at MSU's Kellogg Biological Station
(KBS). The technician will also work in the laboratory
of David Lowry on MSU's main campus, especially dur-
ing winter months. The research will often involve all-
day physical activity outdoors. The technician will be
expected to organize data collection eorts and coordi-
nate these eorts with the larger team across the central
United States. Applications for the position can be made
through the following link: https://utdirect.utexas.edu/-
apps/hr/jobs/nlogon/170215014481 { David B. Lowry
Assistant Professor Plant Biology Department Michigan
State University Plant Biology Laboratories Room 268
517-432-4882 http://davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/
\dlowry@msu.edu" <dlowry@msu.edu >MichiganStateU ResLabTech
NervousSystemEvol
Research Lab Technician
The Ganz Laboratory (www.ganzlab.org) at the Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology, Michigan State University
is looking to ll an immediate opening for the position
of a Research Lab Technician. We are looking for an en-
thusiastic, highly motivated and responsible individual
to join an exciting research team focused on under-
standing nervous system development and disease using
zebrash as model organism. The successful applicant
will be involved in research using molecular, genomics
and imaging techniques to understand how stem cells
generate a diverse and complex nervous system dur-
ing development, in the context of human disease and
during regeneration.
Position summary: Our research focuses on understand-
ing how the development and regeneration of the nervous
system is regulated using zebrash as a model organ-
ism. The ideal candidate will be expected to perform
and document a variety of tasks in a timely, accurate
and detailed manner, meet with the PI on a weekly
basis and provide support to graduate students and
postdocs in the lab. Primary duties may include, but
are not limited to: perform experiments under supervi-
sion of laboratory head; provide support with molecular
biology, developmental biology and imaging projects;
ordering supplies and equipment; lab supply and equip-
ment maintenance and organization; maintaining and
documenting lab cleanliness and safety standards; man-
aging lab databases (such as plasmid database, antibody
database); equipment maintenance; supervising and
training undergraduate students, sta and volunteers;
conducting literature reviews on various topics related
to developmental biology, neuroscience and genetics.
Minimum requirements: Knowledge equivalent to that
which normally would be acquired by completing a four-
year college degree program in Biology, Cell Biology,
Molecular Biology, Developmental Biology, Neuroscience
or related eld of biological sciences; up to six months of
related and progressively more responsible or expansive
work experience in a biology research lab; experience
with standard molecular biology techniques; or an equiv-
alent combination of education and experience.
Desired qualications: Master's degree in Biology,54 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Molecular Biology, Developmental Biology, Neuroscience
or related eld; one to two years post degree experience
working in a molecular biology/neuroscience lab; knowl-
edge of zebrash biology, development, and genetics; ex-
perience with microscopy work and imaging techniques;
experience with next generation sequencing approaches;
strong communication and interpersonal skills; strong
time management skills; strong organizational skills;
evidence of experience with project planning; evidence
of enthusiasm to master new techniques; evidence of
accurate performance and attention to detail; evidence
of successful completion of prior research goals; evidence
of accurate and detailed record keeping; experience with
use of various desktop computer software (Microsoft
Oce, Dropbox, etc.).
This is a full-time appointment, and oers excellent ben-
ets (healthcare, dental, etc.). The initial appointment
will be for a 6-month probationary period, after which
yearly reappointments will be made for successful and
productive candidates.
To apply please go to: https://jobs.msu.edu/ - Position
number: 4909
Closing date for applications is February 28, 2017.
Dr. Julia Ganz Assistant Professor Department of
Integrative Biology Michigan State University 293
Farm Lane East Lansing MI 48824 Giltner Hall 39
(oce) Giltner Hall 40 (lab) Phone (Oce): 517
432 0733 ganz@msu.edu https://www.researchgate.net/-
prole/Julia Ganz www.ganzlab.org \Ganz, Julia"
<ganz@msu.edu >
MNH Florida
CuratorAmphibiansReptiles
Collections Manager of Amphibians & Reptiles
The Florida Museum of Natural History (FLMNH;
http://www.mnh.u.edu) at the University of Florida
(http://www.u.edu) invites applications for a full-time
collections manager of the herpetology collections, eec-
tive 1 July 2017.
This person will oversee and manage the curation of
herpetological specimens, the accession of specimens
into the collection, the maintenance of division records,
reports, collections budget, and supplies, the process-
ing of loans to and from the herpetology collection and
provide assistance to visiting scientists and scholars.
Day-to-day curation includes handling preserved skinsand skeletons as well as uid-preserved scientic speci-
mens (maximum ~12 lbs/jar). The collections manager
will be responsible for loans, managing volunteers, main-
tenance and improvements of collections databases, and
preparation of scientic specimens. It is expected that
the collections manager will participate in on-going lab-
and eld-based research projects in cooperation with the
curator(s) of herpetology at FLMNH. Participation in
public education programs and exhibit planning within
and outside the FLMNH will also be strongly encour-
aged. Coordination of tours and press visits within
the Herpetology collection; preparation of appropriate
educational outreach devices (i.e., website, educational
programs, displays).
ADVERTISED SALARY: Commensurate with educa-
tion and experience.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: Bachelor's degree in a
related eld and ve years of experience working with a
collection of an appropriate discipline. Specic knowl-
edge of the discipline for the collection area is required.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. preferred,
with at least 2 years of experience in working with a
systematic collection of amphibians and reptiles. Pro-
ciency at using the scientic literature to identify such
species, prepare and curate specimens in accordance
with the standards of the discipline. Inclusive of:
A. Intimate knowledge of inner workings of a system-
atic herpetology collections and curatorial techniques.
Among these are:
(a) skills constructing and working with databases;
(b) ability to extract and interpret eld data;
(c) knowledge of international, federal, and state regula-
tions pertaining to scientic specimens;
(d) skills in geocoding and mapping data;
(e) knowledge of preservation techniques;
B. Sucient knowledge of the systematics of amphibians
and reptiles and associated literature is necessary for
accurate sorting and identication of incoming mate-
rial, catching earlier identication errors, ascertaining
relative values of incoming material, and shelving of
specimens.
C. Knowledge of computers and software, specically
Specify, GIS-related applications, Microsoft Word, and
other technical software specic to research discipline
for mapping localities.
D. Must be able to work independently so that day-to-
day activities need not require constant monitoring by
the immediate supervisor. In addition, the person in
this position must have good organization skills.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 55
E. Knowledge of standard eld collecting techniques and
procedures and how to secure proper permits.
F. Demonstrated ability for eective scientic writing,
research, and communication with peers, students, and
the general public. Knowledge and adherence to the
rules and regulations associated with the collecting, ship-
ping and accessioning of natural history specimens for a
major museum and specimen repository and managing
a database for the same.
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS: In or-
der to be considered for this position all applicants
must submit (1) a CV, (2) names and contact info for
3 professional references, and (3) a statement of philos-
ophy regarding the use and management of scientic
collections (1 page maximum). This is a time-limited
position.
For questions about this position, please contact
FLMNH Associate Curator of Herpetology, Dr. David
C. Blackburn. dblackburn@mnh.u.edu
For further details on the position, please visit:
http://explore.jobs.u.edu/cw/en-us/job/501283/-
collections-manager-ii To be considered, all applications
must be submitted on-line at http://jobs.u.edu (requi-
sition # 501283).
For additional information and instructions guides on
managing your job posting online, go to
http://hr.u.edu/learn-grow/just-in-time-training/-
myu-toolkits/careers-at-uf/ \Blackburn, David"
<dblackburn@mnh.u.edu >
NHM UDenmark
PopulationGenomics
Associate Professor of Population Genomics
*The Natural History Museum of Denmark Faculty of
Science**University of Copenhagen*
The Natural History Museum of Denmark invites appli-
cations for a 3-year Associate Professor position in the
Science of population genomics, starting 1 July 2017 or
as soon as possible thereafter.
*Subject Area*
The candidate is expected to lead original scientic re-
search addressing fundamental questions in population
genomics, with a particular focus on investigating hu-
man evolutionary history using ancient genomics. Theideal candidate will have extensive expertise in the com-
putational analysis of large-scale population genomic
datasets, ideally with prior experience in the inference
of demographic and selective processes using both mod-
ern and ancient human genomes. A strong record of
peer-reviewed publications in human genetics and other
relevant elds is expected.
Applicants are required to have university level teach-
ing experience, documented teaching competencies and
must be able to explain and reect upon own teaching
practice and portfolio. Formal pedagogical training or
supervision equivalent to the University of Copenhagen
teacher training programme for assistant professors is
required.
*Specic qualications*
Extensive expertise in the computational analysis of
large-scale human population genomic datasets with
particular emphasis on low coverage genomic datasets
incl. inference of patterns of admixture (d-statistics, f3
statistics)
Prociency in programming and statistical analysis (in
particular R)
Experience in analyses of demographic history and in-
ference of natural selection in human genomic data.
Duties include the applicant's own research, develop-
ment of the eld, assessment tasks, grant applications,
and research management such as supervision and train-
ing of research fellows and other sta. The successful
applicant must also teach, supervise, prepare and partic-
ipate in examinations, and full other tasks requested
by the Department.
*Assessment of applicants* will primarily consider their
level of documented, original scientic production at an
international level, including contributions to develop-
ments in their eld, as well as their documented teaching
qualications. Managerial and out-reach qualications
of applicants including ability to attract external fund-
ing will also be considered.
Centre for GeoGenetics is a Centre of Excellence -
nanced by the National Research Foundation. We are lo-
cated at the Geological Museum, and there are currently
more than 100 researchers working at the Centre. More
information about the Centre for GeoGenetics at http:/-
/geogenetics.ku.dk/ Further information on the Depart-
ment is linked at http://www.science.ku.dk/english/-
about-the-faculty/organisation/. Inquiries about the
position can be made to center director Eske Willerslev
at ewillerslev@snm.ku.dk.
The position is open from 1 July 2017 or as soon as
possible thereafter.56 EvolDir March 1, 2017
The University wishes our sta to reect the diversity of
society and thus welcomes applications from all qualied
candidates regardless of personal background.
*Terms of employment *The position is covered by the
Memorandum on Job Structure for Academic Sta.
Terms of appointment and payment accord to the agree-
ment between the Ministry of Finance and The Dan-
ish Confederation of Professional Associations on Aca-
demics in the State.
Commencing salary is currently up to DKK *449,720*
including annual supplement (+ pension up to DKK
*76,902*).
Negotiation for salary supplement is possible.
The application including all attachments must be in
English and submitted electronically by clicking APPLY
NOW below.
*Please include *
- Curriculum vitae including information about external
funding - Diplomas (Master and PhD degree or equiva-
lent) - Research plan - description of current and future
research plans - Description and documentation of teach-
ing experience and qualications - Complete publication
list - Separate reprints of 5 particularly relevant papers
The deadline for applications is 12 February 2017, 23:59
GMT +1*. *
After the expiry of the deadline for applications, the
authorized recruitment manager selects applicants for
assessment on the advice of the Interview Committee.
You can read about the recruitment process at http:/-
/employment.ku.dk/faculty/recruitment-process/ . In-
terviews/trial lectures will be held on 22 May 2017.
Please refer to the following no. in future communica-
tion in this case: 211-0468.
*APPLY NOW http://employment.ku.dk/all-
vacancies/?show=877111 Part of the International
Alliance of Research Universities (IARU), and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlNorthCarolinaStateU
EvolutionPlantDisease
This job announcement is for an open rank faculty mem-
ber for our Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food
Security cluster. We are looking for an evolutionary
biologist with expertise in bioinformatics.
Cluster Hire in Data Science of Emerging Plant Diseases
and Global Food Security, NC State University
As part of the Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program,
NC State University seeks an outstanding faculty at
any rank to form a new interdisciplinary faculty cluster
on \Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food Security".
The Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food Secu-
rity cluster will develop new knowledge on emerging
plant disease biology using an expanding array of new
technologies to gather, analyze, synthesize, and share
knowledge about emerging infectious diseases of plants
caused by agricultural crop pathogens and arthropod
vectors of these pathogens using: novel biosurveillance
methods, remote sensing, GPS and mapping systems.
The new faculty cluster in Emerging Disease Biology
and Global Food Security seeks an outstanding interdis-
ciplinary data scientist for an open rank tenure-track
faculty position, conducting cross-cutting research in
population genomics, epidemiology, and the evolution
of emerging pests and pathogens of agricultural crops.
Successful candidates will have demonstrated expertise
in the development and use of molecular, bioinformat-
ics, and geospatial tools to track sources of disease
outbreaks at multiple levels of scale, from the genome
and biome to ecosystems. Candidates will be expected
to work closely with other biologists and modelers re-
cruited as part of the cluster, and to interact with other
clusters, including Bioinformatics, Geospatial Analytics,
Genetic Engineering and Society, and Data-Driven Sci-
ences. The position will be housed in the Bioinformatics
Research Center, an interdisciplinary unit with faculty
from Statistics, Biological Sciences, Computer Science,
and other departments.
The Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food Security
cluster provides a dynamic environment for teaching and
research collaborations across disciplines. NC State's
location in the Research Triangle provides rich opportu-
nities for interactions with industry; other universities,
including Duke University and the University of NorthMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 57
Carolina at Chapel Hill; and a number of government
agencies. Opportunities for synergistic linkages with
the Southeast Regional Climate Hub, USDA Center for
Plant Health Science and Technology, and the Southern
Region IPM Center are also highly anticipated.
The Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program is bring-
ing some of the best and brightest minds to join NC
State University's interdisciplinary eorts to solve some
of the globe's most signicant problems. Guided by
a strong strategic plan and an aggressive vision, the
cluster hiring program is adding new faculty members
in select elds to add more breadth and depth to NC
State's already-strong eorts. The Chancellor's Fac-
ulty Excellence Program marks a major initiative of
the university's strategic plan, \The Pathway to the Fu-
ture." Explore more information about the Chancellor's
Faculty Excellence Program and this cluster at http://-
ncsu.edu/workthatmatters . The candidate should have
a doctorate in Statistics, Biostatistics, Evolutionary
Biology, Mathematics, Computer Science, Plant or Mi-
crobial Sciences or other related discipline with both
strong quantitative training and an applied focus as
described. Candidates should have the ability to teach
at a variety of levels and the capacity to mentor at the
doctoral level. The candidates should have a strong ca-
pacity to teach at both the undergraduate and graduate
levels and become part of the integrated core team de-
veloping the Global Food Security Graduate Certicate
Program. The capacity to mentor doctoral students and
postdoctoral fellows is expected. Priority will be given
to candidates that have demonstrated interdisciplinary
collaborations that cut across academic units.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in Statistics, Biostatis-
tics, Evolutionary Biology, Mathematics, Computer Sci-
ence, or other related discipline with strong quantitative
training and an applied focus as described. Candidates
should have demonstrated ability or potential to at-
tract extramural funding, and will be expected to take
a leading role in developing new cross-cutting initia-
tives at NCSU, exploiting the traditional strengths in
quantitative and biological sciences. For consideration,
a curriculum vitae, cover letter, statement of research
goals for the cluster and contact information for refer-
ences are requested.
Materials for consideration will be accepted electroni-
cally via http://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/58983/. A com-
prehensive review of applications will begin immediately
and continue until the position is lled. Review of ap-
plications will begin February 28, 2017, and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Okinawa Shortterm
TeachingEvolution
The Ecology and Evolution Unit at Okinawa Institute of
Science and Technology Graduate University is looking
for a lecturer to assist with teaching of a graduate-level
introductory biology course while the regular instructor
is abroad. This is an exciting opportunity for anyone
who wants to extend his teaching experience with state-
of-the- art technology, while working in an international,
intellectually stimulating environment, and enjoying a
summer on a subtropical Pacic island.
This course introduces fundamentals of biological sci-
ence, particularly genetics and genomics, to a diverse
body of students, primarily from the physical sciences
and engineering. It relies on a combination of computa-
tional approaches to introduce fundamental biological
processes and laboratory experiments that emphasize
critical thinking and problem solving. As a result, this
course also attracts biology students interested in be-
coming procient with programming bioinformatics, or
with next-generation sequencing technology.
Working jointly with the regular instructor, the lec-
turer will be responsible for adding or modifying course
content, and for organizing the course into a largely
online format, as well as teaching labs and tutorials.
In addition, a previously developed teaching module
that constitutes part of this course, should be pre-
pared for peer-reviewed publication (https://peerj.com/-
preprints/1356/) by creating learning assessments in
exchange for authorship.
Requirements
- The ability to deliver lectures in English. - Experience
with Python, R, and Linux; experience with Jupyter
notebooks a plus. - Previous graduate-level work in
bioinformatic data analysis. - Hands-on experience in
the molecular lab. - The ability to travel to Okinawa in
May.
Details
- 6 contact hours per week. - Salary: ^A ¥2,000,000
(~ $18,000). Transportation costs and housing will be
provided for the successful candidate. - Course dates:
May 8 - August 18, 2017. - OIST will help with obtain-58 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ing a working visa, if necessary. - Application deadline:
March 5, 2017, with Skype interviews to be held during
the following week.
Applicants should include a cover letter that outlines mo-
tivations and previous teaching experience, as well as evi-
dence of prociency in programming/bioinformatics/lab
work. A CV with references is also required.
Send applications, and questions to Alexander Mikheyev
(alexander dot mikheyev at oist.jp)
Sasha Mikheyev <alexander.mikheyev@oist.jp >
RutgersU EvolutionaryBiology
Tenure-Track Position
Federated Department of Biological Sciences, Ecology
and Evolution Section
Rutgers University-Newark
The Federated Department of Biological Sciences at Rut-
gers University-Newark seeks to hire an evolutionary
biologist to ll a tenure-track vacancy in the Ecology
and Evolution group eective September 2017 at the
assistant professor level, although other ranks will be
considered. We seek applications from researchers who
use innovative approaches to address fundamental evolu-
tionary questions rmly grounded in organismal biology.
We especially encourage applications from individuals
working in one or more of the following areas:
systematics, population genomics, landscape genomics,
functional morphology, biodiversity, and/or organismal
diversication. This position builds on strengths in areas
of organismal biology, ecology, evolution, systematics,
and conservation biology.
Rutgers University-Newark is a diverse and vibrant com-
munity of scholars and the Department of Biological
Sciences oers unique opportunities for collaboration,
as we are a federated department with the New Jersey
Institute of Technology. More information about the
Department and the full posting for this vacancy can
be found at http://www.ncas.rutgers.edu/biology . The
successful candidate will have a Ph.D. and completed at
least two years of postdoctoral work focused on evolu-
tionary biology. The successful candidate will have the
ability to collaborate with diverse colleagues and disci-
plines, a strong publication record, and a demonstrated
ability to develop a vigorous, extramurally funded re-search program. Evidence of or potential for excellence
in teaching and mentoring and a commitment to foster-
ing and supporting diversity will be considered. Rank
and salary will be commensurate with qualications and
experience. Interested applicants should submit a Cover
letter, Curriculum Vitae, Research Statement, Teaching
statement, and the names and contact information of
three references.
Please apply through the Rutgers University Human
Resources Portal:
https:jobs.rutgers.edu/ht/shibboleth Review of applica-
tions will begin February 28, 2017. Rutgers University-
Newark encourages applications from women, veterans,
people with disabilities, and members of traditionally
under-represented populations.
Jessica Ware <jware@amnh.org >
Smithsonian PathogenEvolution
The research component involves application of evolu-
tionary genetic methods and can address evolutionary
questions.
Deadline is 15 February 2017. Five year research posi-
tion.
Secretary ^A1s Scholars Job Opportunity
Molecular Pathogen Scientist
Center for Conservation Genomics
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute
National Zoological Park
SALARY RANGE: Starting at $77,490, commensurate
with experience
OPEN PERIOD: 15 January ^A' 15 February 2017
DUTY LOCATION: Washington, DC
The Center for Conservation Genomics (CCG), Smith-
sonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI), National
Zoological Park, invites applications for the position of
Molecular Pathogen Scientist. The successful candidate
will be an exceptional scientist with a strong track record
of published research involving the molecular analysis of
animal pathogens, especially those of concern for animal
health and conservation.
The selected candidate will be expected to build an
outstanding research and clinical analysis program inMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 59
molecular pathogen science. The candidate should have
experience in developing and applying ^A3next genera-
tion^A2DNA lab analysis methods and bioinformatics,
as applied to pathogen diagnostics, characterization
and/or function. Knowledge of the biology of one or
more groups of animal parasites or pathogens is also
expected. The ability to communicate eectively with
a wide variety of audiences, including the public, is es-
sential. The successful candidate will be expected to
participate in activities, such as exhibits programs and
educational outreach, to be involved with professional
associations and other organizations within the scientic
community, and to compete successfully for extramural
funding.
Full-time, 5-year temporary appointment with full
Smithsonian benets to be lled at the IS-12 level, equiv-
alent to Federal GS-12. Proof of authorization to work
in US required. The zoo ^A1s authorized salary for this
position at this time is $77,490 per annum. Qualied
candidates who are referred to the hiring ocial will
be asked to submit educational transcripts and proof of
U.S. accreditation for foreign study.
KEY REQUIREMENTS:
* Pre-employment Background Investigation must be
successfully completed.
* Must be able to travel and work independently as well
as within a team environment.
Candidates may qualify for this position by demonstrat-
ing the experience outlined above, by completion of
three full years of progressively higher level graduate
education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral de-
gree related to the position, or by a combination of
experience and education.
The Smithsonian Institution oers a competitive salary
and a comprehensive package of benets. This is not
a Federal Position, but has similar requirements and
benets. For a complete description of benets, please
visit www.sihr.si.edu . Interested candidates should sub-
mit to eischerr@si.edu (1) their curriculum vitae, (2) a
cover letter, and (3) research statements detailing their
research interests and general experience for the position
by 15 February 2017. Please include the position title
in the subject line of your e-mail. CVs should include a
description of your paid and non-paid work experience
that is related to this job; starting and ending dates
of job (month and year); and average number of hours
worked per week. They should also include educational
history (including degrees awarded), listings of publica-
tions, scientic and public presentations, grants received,
and honors and awards.
To learn more about the CCG, SCBI and NZP pleasevisit https://nationalzoo.si.edu/center-for-conservation-
genomics For more information, contact Robert Fleis-
cher (eischerr@si.edu).
The Smithsonian Institution is an equal opportunity,
armative action employer. Candidates of all back-
grounds are encouraged to apply.
\Fleischer, Robert" <FleischerR@si.edu >
Smithsonian ResAssist
EvolutionBehavior
Hello,
We are hiring two research assistants to work on 1) co-
operation in vampire bats, or 2) sensory ecology in bats,
in Panama. See ad here:
https://socialbat.org/interns/ Best Dr. Gerry Carter
Gerald G Carter Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute socialbat.org
Gerald Carter <ggc.bats@gmail.com >
SouthAfrica ResearchManager
StripedMouse
Position as research manager at the striped mouse
project in South Africa,
starting August / September 2017 for 1.5 to 3 years
We are looking for an extremely motivated and indepen-
dent biology student with a master's degree to join the
striped mouse project at least until November 2018 and
for a maximum of 3 years as research manager. This
position is suitable for somebody who would like to
gain experience in eld work and scientic management.
Managers get free accommodation at the station, a com-
pensation to cover their daily costs, and either free food
(approx. May to October 2018) or a compensation to
buy their own groceries (total compensation per month
of approx. R4500). Travel costs can be refunded by up
to an additional R 12 000 / year. As such, the position
compensates for all arising costs but does not represent
a real employment.
The research manager will work closely together with60 EvolDir March 1, 2017
the station manager and both managers will share re-
sponsibilities. However, each will have specic main
duties, but should also be able to deal with all other
duties (for example when the other manager is on leave,
or when a new manager has to be trained). Our current
research manager will leave the project end of Novem-
ber to start a PhD. The new research manager will be
instructed by the present research manager and both
will overlap for approximately three months.
Skills needed: The new manager must have experience
in extended eld work (people without this experience
can apply to become a volunteer) and must have good
knowledge of behavioural ecology or a similar eld of
research. Experiences in working with small mammals,
radio-tracking, blood sampling, living at a remote loca-
tion are of advantage.
Great opportunity: This is a great opportunity to spend
1-3 years in Africa, acquiring important skills in eld
biology and project management, while improving your
CV. These skills will become valuable whether you later
continue with a PhD or other jobs. It will be very hard
and demanding, but also a once in a life time experience!
You must be hard-working, highly motivated, able to
work independently, good in communicating with peo-
ple, able to supervise others, and not afraid of snakes.
You should love to live at a remote place in nature,
without regular internet and cell-phone reception. Most
importantly, you are fascinated by nature and science!
Job description: Five working days a week (Mo, Tue,
Thu, Fr, Sat), with Wednesday being used for a shop-
ping trip to town (not counted as working day) and
Sundays being free. Included are four weeks of holiday
for 12 months, which has to be taken outside the main
breeding season (August to November) during periods
when other students are present at the research station.
Shared duties
Striped mice:
. Trapping
. Observing
. Radio-tracking, putting radio-collars on
. Blood sampling
. Collect data for specic research projects (to be de-
termined. Examples would be collecting urine samples,
data on basking, cognitive testing .)
Primary duties research manager / secondary duties
station manager
. Data:
o Weekly data entryo Weekly data check
o Monthly data backup
o Monthly data report
o Training and supervision of eld assistants
o Training of students and postdocs
o Support for students and postdocs
o Management of transmitters
o Management of eld and laboratory supplies
Primary duties station manager / secondary duties re-
search manager
. Technical support research station:
o Water system incl. sewage system
o Solar system
o Gas bottles replacement
o House and furniture
o Running of the respirometry laboratory
o Management of the captive colony
o Management of the research station car
o Management of bank account and cash box
o Management of research station supplies
Compensation:
. Free accommodation.
. A monthly compensation of R 4 500, which is su-
cient to pay all costs of living (approx. 3500/month).
In months were SKRS organises communal lunches for
all people at the research station (a specic project in
2018), the compensation will be reduced.
. For travel costs, R12 000 per year can be refunded,
but proof (receipts) must be presented for this. This
refund is only payable after 12 months.
. You will become an honorary researcher at the Uni-
versity of the Witwatersrand in the group of Prof. N.
Pillay.
. Scientic co-authorship will be possible if the manager
contributes to the success of projects by not only col-
lecting the majority of data, but also by data analysis
and writing of the manuscript.
Responsibilities:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 61
UCalgary ComputationalBiol
The University of Calgary invites applications for a full-
time Professor faculty position with Tenure to join a
dynamic group of investigators as part of the Biomedi-
cal Engineering (BME) Calgary Initiative. BME Cal-
gary brings together researchers from multiple faculties
across campus with external stakeholders, including gov-
ernment and industry participants, to benet from a
team-based approach for tackling current and future
BME challenges in Alberta, Canada and worldwide.
Biomedical Engineering at the University of Calgary
involves more than 100 faculty members across six fac-
ulties, with current annual research funding exceeding
$45M. The university has made signicant investments
in Biomedical Engineering to date, including the allo-
cation of four Tier 1 and ve Tier 2 Canada Research
Chairs. Engineering Solutions for Health: Biomedical
Engineering is one of six strategic research priorities
of the University of Calgary. A strong culture of col-
laboration and cross-disciplinary research excellence is
enabled by signicant research infrastructure located in
multiple centers across campus. The university operates
a multi-faculty Biomedical Engineering Graduate Pro-
gram, hosts a Biomedical Engineering-related NSERC-
CREATE training program, and delivers a Biomedical
Engineering Specialization in conjunction with 6 engi-
neering majors in the Schulich School of Engineering.
Please visit our website (http://www.ucalgary.ca/bme)
for more information.
The successful candidate will be placed in a joint posi-
tion, depending on their background, in the Faculty of
Science, and/or Schulich School of Engineering, and/or
Cumming School of Medicine. Applicants must have
earned a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering or equivalent.
It is expected that the successful candidate will provide
evidence of:
- Outstanding and innovative world-class research which
has made a major impact in their eld - International
recognition as a leader in their eld - Superior track
record in attracting and supervising graduate students
and postdoctoral fellows - Strong service and/or leader-
ship record - Excellent teaching record The applicant
should propose an original, innovative research program
of the highest quality. The successful candidate will
be nominated for an NSERC Tier 1 Canada Research
Chair, created by the Government of Canada to posi-tion Canada as a world leader in research. This Chair
will directly support the successful candidate's research
program.
Exceptional candidates must have a research focus in
Biomedical Engineering with particular interest in:
- Development of computational biology or bioinformat-
ics algorithms, tools or software for the analysis of large
multivariate datasets, including biosensor, imaging, hu-
man genome, transcriptome, epigenome, microbiome, or
physiome - Biological network behaviors, such as gene
regulatory networks, protein interactions, and epigenetic
eects, as approached through experimental, computa-
tional, and analytical methods. - Big data/machine
learning methods, analytics, visualization, software and
modeling applied to emerging areas of biomedical engi-
neering or biological science - Development and applica-
tion of precision diagnostic and therapeutic technology,
through computational, genomic, and pervasive data
sensing and collecting techniques
The successful candidate will join an established mul-
tidisciplinary and inter-Faculty team of biomedical en-
gineers, scientists, clinicians, nurses and veterinarians
whose fundamental research activities, support collabo-
rative health-related research problems. The position
provides an opportunity to establish a vigorous, sustain-
able, externally-funded research program, contribute to
teaching and graduate student supervision, and partici-
pate in leadership of BME related research, education
and service. This is an excellent opportunity to build
and develop an innovative research program within a
dynamic and collaborative environment. A competi-
tive salary and an attractive start-up package will be
provided.
The University of Calgary is committed to supporting
Biomedical Engineering as a strategic research theme
within the context of the Eyes High vision to become
one of Canada's top 5 research universities. The suc-
cessful candidate possesses the attributes and desire
to lead research initiatives within this interdisciplinary
area at the University of Calgary, to build on current
strengths, to develop strategy for future growth and pro-
mote program development combined with both student
engagement and experience.
The Schulich School of Engineering is committed to
fostering diversity through cultivating an environment
where people with a variety of backgrounds, genders,
interests and talents feel welcome and included. In 2016,
the Schulich School of Engineering was recognized with
the KNOVO Award of Distinction to honour school's
commitment to diversity and equity.
/62 EvolDir March 1, 2017
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Berkeley
ConservationBiol
See this job posting online: https://-
aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/jpf01224 The Department
of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management
at the University of California, Berkeley invites
applications for a pool of part-time, non-tenure track
lecturer positions (including summer sessions) to teach
courses in Environmental Science and related topics.
Screening of applicants begins immediately and will
continue as needed. Applicants will be typically selected
from this pool for one semester; some appointments
will begin in the spring 2017 semester. The number of
positions varies from semester to semester, depending
on the needs of the Department.
We are seeking outstanding lecturers who can teach/co-
teach small, medium, or large lecture and/or laboratory
courses, at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Po-
tential course topics may include environmental science,
environmental policy, ecology, forestry, insect biology,
GIS/remote sensing, statistics and data analysis, range
management, resource management, climate science,
biodiversity, conservation biology, land use as well as
courses that examine social, cultural, economic and po-
litical aspects of natural resources and the environment.
General Duties - The primary responsibilities for Lec-
turer positions include: - Delivering lectures and holding
oce hours - Planning and preparing lessons; researching
and developing new topics, teaching materials and online
resources - Supervising Graduate Student Instructors
(GSIs), if applicable - Developing exams and projects
and assigning grades - Maintaining accurate records and
monitoring students' progress, as well as addressing any
special student needs - Maintaining knowledge of, and
implementing, college policies
Qualications: A Master's degree or equivalent degree
in an area related to Environmental Science is required
by the time of application. Experience of at least 5
years in lieu of degree shall be considered.
Preferred Qualications: A Ph.D. degree in an area
related to Environmental Science is preferred. Pre-
ferred qualications also include teaching experienceand strong professional references.
Salary: Commensurate with qualications and experi-
ence (starting annual, full-time salary is $52,099). Some
credit will be given to prior college-level teaching experi-
ence (not including graduate student or summer session
teaching).
To apply, please go to apre-
cruit.berkeley.edu/apply/jpf01224.
Interested individuals should submit a current CV, a
statement of teaching (which should include past and/or
potential contributions to diversity and inclusion [please
also indicate subject areas of interest regarding teach-
ing]), and the names and contact information of three
referees. Letters of reference may be requested of -
nalists. Filenames should include the applicant's last
and rst names. It is optional to include a copy of
transcript and evidence of teaching eectiveness. All
letters will be treated as condential per University of
California policy and California state law. Please refer
potential referees, including when letters are provided
via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center),
to the UC Berkeley statement of condentiality ( http:/-
/apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html) prior to submitting their
letters.
The posting will remain open until November 30, 2017
to accommodate future Department needs. Candidates
who wish to remain in the pool after November 30,
2017 will need to reapply. Applicants can direct ques-
tions to espm recruitment@berkeley.edu. Additional
information on the Department and campus can be
found at http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu and http:/-
/berkeley.edu . This is a non-tenured, temporary posi-
tion: the appointments to the title of Lecturer are self-
terminating (no further notice on non-reappointment
will be forthcoming) and do not create an obligation on
the part of the University either to extend or renew the
appointment outlined above. Any reappointment will
be preceded by an assessment.
We encourage applications from individuals who will
contribute to diversity in higher education. The Univer-
sity of California is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action Employer. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national origin, disability, age or protected veteran sta-
tus. For the complete University of California nondis-
crimination and armative action policy see: http:/-
/policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimArmAct .
{ Greg Biging (o) 510 642-1249 lab website <http://-
gbiging.wix.com/lab >Vice Chair of Instruction, ESPM,
UC BerkeleyMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 63
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia LosAngeles ResTech
PlantEvolGenomics
UCLA Plant Evolutionary Genomics Technician/Lab
Manager. We are inviting applications for an enthu-
siastic and experienced biologist with a bachelor's (or
Master's) degree to conduct genomic research on non-
model plants, and to manage a laboratory with ongoing
genomic and eld studies related to evolutionary and
conservation questions on oaks and other plants. The
individual will join a diverse and stimulating scientic
team and will be included in weekly lab meetings and
social events. Working in the laboratory of Victoria
Sork and Felipe Zapata, the technician and lab manager
(classied as Sta Research Associate III) will be respon-
sible for laboratory methods in support of research in
plant evolutionary genomics (e.g., population genomics,
phylogenomics), genome annotation, and gene expres-
sion studies. This work requires knowledge of molecular
research tools and skills in high throughput genomic
techniques. The technician will also provide data man-
agement for research in these areas. The necessary
molecular techniques include: DNA and RNA extraction,
PCR, library preparation for genotyping (e.g., RAD-seq,
GBS, MSG), RNAseq, epigenetics, preliminary data
analysis, and sequencing sample design. Knowledge of
R or python scripting languages is a plus, but not nec-
essary. Other duties include: oversee day-to-day man-
agement of laboratory including purchase of supplies
and equipment; insure proper operation and mainte-
nance of laboratory equipment; entering and managing
electronic data les; supervise undergraduate research
assistants; and training of students. This is full-time
appointment with shared duties in the laboratories of
Victoria Sork and Felipe Zapata. Any interested indi-
viduals should review the job listing for further details:
https://hr.mycareer.ucla.edu and search for Job Requi-
sition #25366 -Applications submitted through the link
above will be reviewed as submitted. -Reviews will begin
February 15, 2017 and continue until position is lled.
-Desired start date is: March 1, 2017 If you have ques-
tions, please write Victoria Sork (sorklab@gmail.com)
or Felipe Zapata (zapatalab@gmail.com)zapatalab@gmail.com
UCatolicadeChile 2
EvolutionaryBiol
The Pontica Universidad Cat olica de Chile invites ap-
plications to two tenure-track Assistant Professor po-
sitions, aliated to the Department of Ecology at the
Faculty of Biological Sciences.
*Description of the Department of Ecology and the Po-
sitions *
The Department of Ecology (DECOL) includes 20 re-
searchers some of which have joint appointments with
the Faculty of Physics, Engineering, and Political Sci-
ences & Geography. The DECOL is a diverse depart-
ment that includes among its members, researchers from
Argentina, Australia, USA, France, M exico and Uruguay.
They participate in both undergraduate (Licentiate in
Biology and Marine Biology) and graduate teaching
(PhD in Biological Sciences / Ecology). In terms of
research, the DECOL has identied interdisciplinary
science as one of its priorities and the analyses of the
impact of Global Change upon biodiversity and sustain-
ability as its major cross-cutting themes.
In general, we are searching for creative, productive
and collaborative scientists whose work addresses fun-
damental questions in Ecology and/or Evolution that
t within the general prole of DECOL outlined above.
However, for one of these positions priority will be given
to applicants with the capacity to develop a research
program in the area of Ecology and/or Evolution of
marine organisms, specically macroalgae.
*Position Responsabilities: *
The selected applicants should:
1) develop an independent research program, and lead
research projects in the area of Ecology and/or Evolu-
tion with emphasis in any level of ecological integration
(from molecules to ecosystems) and using experimental,
correlational and/or theoretical approaches.
2) generate interactions with researchers within DECOL,
and potentially, from other Departments of the Faculty
of Biological Sciences and/or other Faculties within the
University.
3) He/she should be prepared to teach courses at the
undergraduate and graduate level and according to the
needs of DECOL.64 EvolDir March 1, 2017
*Application requirements:*
Applicants should have a PhD and Postdoctoral expe-
rience. At least one of these should be in Ecology or
Evolution. The applicant should show capacity to carry
out an independent research program and obtain com-
petitive, extramural funding. Teaching experience at
undergraduate and/or graduate level is desirable.
*Selection Criteria:*
Academic trajectory and quality of the scientic pro-
duction of the applicant
Experience in interdisciplinary work
Academic references
Potential for integration into the academic activities of
DECOL and the Faculty of Biological Sciences.
*Application Process:*
§TO APPLY, COMPLETE THE APPLICATION
FORM *AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST FROM:
*Prof. Xavier Figueroa, Academic Secretary of the
Faculty of Biological Sciences. E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
§Request at least three letters of recommendation that
make reference to the trajectory and academic cre-
dentials of the candidate. These should be sent di-
rectly to the Academic Secretary of the Faculty of
Biological Sciences at the following E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
Applicants should send all application materials
by E-mail to Prof. Xavier Figueroa, Academic
Secretary, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Ponti-
cia Universidad Cat olica de Chile, E- mail: secre-
taria.academica@bio.puc.cl
*Deadline for Applications: April 27, 2017 at 17:00. *
{ Sylvain Faugeron
UMI3614 Evolutionary Biology and Ecology of Algae
Departamento de Ecolog a Facultad de Ciencias Bi-
ologicas Ponticia Universidad Catolica de Chile Av.
Bernardo O'Higgins 340 Santiago - Chile +56-223 54 26
47 sfaugeron@bio.puc.cl
Sylvain Faugeron <sfaugeron@bio.puc.cl >UdelosAndes Colombia
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
TheDepartment of Biological Sciences at the Universi-
dad de los Andes (Bogot a, Colombia) seeks to ll full
time positions in Microbiology at the Assistant or Asso-
ciate Professor level. The applicant must possess a PhD,
preferably with postdoctoral experience and a successful
track record of scientic productivity.
Applicantswith expertise in any area of microbiology
are encouraged to apply, especially those with research
interests in microbial ecology/evolution, environmental
microbiology, medical microbiology, and biotechnology.
Startingon August 2017 (or at the latest January 2018),
the successful candidate is expected to teach basic under-
graduate courses in cell biology, bacteriology or virology.
The candidate will also oer graduate-level courses in
her/his area of expertise. Between 4-6 courses are ex-
pected to be taught every year, 2-3 during the rst year
at the University. The successful applicant will advise
undergraduate, masters and doctoral students and is ex-
pected to develop collaborative research with colleagues
or technology transfer with the external sector.
TheDepartment of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sidad de los Andes oers one of the top microbiology
programs in Latin America, and hosts 27 full-time pro-
fessors. Internationally recognized research programs in-
clude parasitology, bioremediation, microbial genomics,
bioinformatics, mycology, human genetics, and molec-
ular systematics. The Department hosts a central se-
quencing facility and high-performance computing in-
frastructure. The Biological Sciences faculty is young
and growing rapidly.
Interestedcandidates should send a curriculum vitae,
a description of her/his research program, and a brief
teaching statement outlining experience and philoso-
phy (preferably all collapsed as a single PDF) to the
following email address: svde@uniandes.edu.co.
Deadlinefor receipt of material is April 21, 2017. Top
candidates will then be asked to submit letters of recom-
mendation and copies of recent publications. Ifyou need
additional information, do not hesitate to contact: Svet-
lana de Arteaga svde@uniandes.edu.co Departamentode
Ciencias Biol ogicas Universidadde los Andes
juansanc@uniandes.edu.coMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 65
UExeter EvolutionaryBiosciences
Job title Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in Biosciences Job
reference P55930 Date posted 26/01/2017 Application
closing date 02/03/2017 Location Cornwall Salary Ap-
pointments will be made within the Education and Re-
search job family salary scale ranges as follows: Lecturer
on Grade F, 33,943 to 41,709 p.a., and at for Senior
Lecturer on Grade G, 41,709 to 55,998 p.a. depending
on skills and experience.
Package Generous holiday allowances, exible working,
pension scheme and relocation package (if applicable).
Job category/type Academic Job description (Education
and Research)
Applications: https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID=-
357296Gonj&WVID=3817591jNg&LANG=USA
(Multiple positions)
College of Life and Environmental Sciences
The University of Exeter is a Russell Group university
that combines world-class research with very high lev-
els of student satisfaction. Exeter is ranked 9th in the
Times Good University Guide 2017 and 16thin the 2014
Research Excellence Framework (REF) with 98% of its
research rates as being of international quality.
To further strengthen our activities in ecology, conser-
vation or evolution we are seeking to appoint up to two
Lecturers or Senior Lecturers (Education and Research)
based at the Centre for Ecology and Conservation at our
Penryn campus in Cornwall. Applicants should have
particular strength in ecology, conservation or evolution.
We are particularly interested in growing our teams that
work on marine systems.
Applicants for Lecturer positions will hold a PhD or
equivalent in Ecology, Conservation, Evolution and have
an independent, internationally-recognised research pro-
gramme in an active eld of research related or comple-
mentary to existing strengths. Applicants will be able
to demonstrate a strong record in attracting funding
for their research, or demonstrable potential to attract
such funding; teamwork skills to work in collaboration
with existing group members; an active and support-
ive approach to inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary
research that will help to foster interactions and linksboth within the University and externally with external
partners and industry; the attitude and ability to engage
in continuous professional development; the aptitude to
develop familiarity with a variety of strategies to pro-
mote and assess learning; and enthusiasm for delivering
undergraduate programmes. We are also looking for
people with experience in working with non-university
partners and generating impact from research.
For appointment at Senior Lecturer level, in addition to
the above, applicants must be qualied to PhD level and
be able to demonstrate a strong potential for research
leadership; with a track record in refereed publications
and proven success in signicant grant capture. We
are also looking for candidates who have existing rela-
tionships with external organisations and funders/ and
knowledge and experience of key sectors or business chal-
lenges. The successful applicants will also be expected
to contribute to teaching at both undergraduate and
graduate levels on a range of programmes and to support
impact development if appropriate to their research.
We particularly welcome applications from candidates
holding individual fellowships and may make additional
appointments to suitably qualied candidates To view
the Job Description and Person Specication document
please click here.
Applicants are encouraged to contact Prof Brendan God-
ley, Director of the Centre for Ecology and Conservation
(tel: 01326 371861, email:B.J.Godley@exeter.ac.uk ) to
discuss the post further. You may also wish to con-
sult our web site at (http://lifesciences.exeter.ac.uk/-
research/ ) for further details of the College.
Interviews are expected to take place over two days on
the 29 and 30 March 2017. Please state clearly whether
you are applying for Lecturer (P55929) or Senior Lec-
turer (P55930) in your application.
The department is proud to have a Silver Athena SWAN
award in recognition of their commitment and impact
to providing equality of opportunity and advancing the
representation of women in STEM/M subjects. All of
the University of Exeter's STEM/M departments hold
an Athena SWAN award.
The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity em-
ployer which is 'Positive about Disabled People'. Whilst
all applicants will be judged on merit alone, we par-
ticularly welcome applications from groups currently
underrepresented in the workforce.
Ben Longdon <b.longdon2@exeter.ac.uk >66 EvolDir March 1, 2017
UExeter FieldAssist SpainWasps
FieldAssistant positions for study of behavioural ecology
of paper wasps in Spain
FIELDASSISTANTS sought for 3 months starting early
April 2017, to help with a study of paper wasp (Polistes)
behavioural ecology being carried out by Professor
Jeremy Field's research group in southern Spain. The
work will involve helping a postdoctoral researcher to
census and observe colonies as part of experiments to
elucidate the basis of helping behaviour in these wasps,
which live in small colonies of <20 individuals. The
successful applicants must be prepared to work hard
and have an interest in behavioural/evolutionary bi-
ology and enthusiasm for eldwork. Successful appli-
cants will obtain excellent experience of cutting-edge
insect behavioural ecology. A driving licence and any
ability to speak Spanish would be an advantage, but
are not essential. Because the work involves record-
ing colour marks on individual animals, the job would
not be suitable for someone who is colour-blind. Prof
Field's group has recently relocated to Exeter University
(Cornwall campus) from University of Sussex (see http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/eldlab/ for the group's re-
search).
Airfare (from the UK) and accommodation expenses
will be provided, with the eld assistants needing to
pay for only their own food/personal expenses, which
are relatively cheap in Spain. Successful applicants will
also receive a 1000 contribution towards their expenses.
Accommodation will be a room in a at/house shared
with the postdoctoral researcher and/or other mem-
bers of the research group - including shower, cooking
facilities, TV etc. Send a covering letter and CV, in-
cluding contact details (email addresses/tel nos.) for
the applicant and 2-3 referees who would be available to
provide references during February/March 2017. Email
as a single Word document to Dr Christelle Couchoux
(c.couchoux@exeter.ac.uk) and cc Prof. Jeremy Field
(j.p.eld@exeter.ac.uk).
Applicantsmust be available for interview at Exeter Uni-
versity (Cornwall campus) or via Skype. Review of
applications will begin on 15 February, and continue
until positions are lled.
Informalenquiries: c.couchoux@exeter.ac.uk
DrChristelle Couchoux Centrefor Ecology & Conserva-tion Daphnedu Maurier building Universityof Exeter
Penryncampus Cornwall TR109FE UK
email:c.couchoux@exeter.ac.uk mobile:+44 7850 146 436
C.Couchoux@exeter.ac.uk
UFlorida BeeEvolution
Pollination Ecology position at University of Florida
This position is relevant to biologists studying the evo-
lution, conservation, sociality, biogeography and biodi-
versity, host specicity, parasite and disease dynamics,
development and genetics/genomics of bees. Evolution-
ary biologists interested in communicating science and
working with public audiences, including agricultural
stakeholders in Florida, are encouraged to apply.
WHERE: The Entomology and Nematology Department
at the University of Florida is accepting applications
for an Assistant Professorship focused on pollination
ecology in natural areas and crop systems. This is a
12-month, tenure-accruing position that will be 60% re-
search (Florida Agricultural Experiment Station), 25%
Extension (UF/IFAS Extension Service), and 15% teach-
ing (College of Agricultural and Life Sciences). The
position is based in Gainesville, FL, USA.
WHAT: The primary focus within the research as-
signment is the pollination ecology and/or conserva-
tion of non-Apis bees. The Extension responsibilities
will include developing and implementing an eective
statewide Extension education program to support con-
servation eorts and stakeholders who rely on the polli-
nation services that non-Apis bees provide. The teaching
responsibilities will include developing an undergradu-
ate/graduate course in pollinator ecology/conservation
and participation in revolving topic seminars in the can-
didate's area of expertise. Please forward this announce-
ment to all interested parties. More information about
the position can be found at http://explore.jobs.u.edu/-
cw/en-us/job/501323. The University of Florida is an
Equal Opportunity Institution.
Andrea Lucky, Ph.D.
alucky@u.edu
\Lucky,Andrea" <alucky@u.edu >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 67
UGeorgia TeachingEvolution
TWO LECTURER POSITIONS IN INTRODUCTORY
BIOLOGY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA
The Department of Plant Biology and the Division of
Biological Sciences at The University of Georgia invite
applications for two full-time LECTURER positions in
Introductory Biology. Successful applicants must be
able to begin teaching the rst week of August 2017.
A Ph.D. or equivalent degree in a relevant eld is re-
quired. Responsibilities include instruction of three
large-enrollment sections of introductory biology for
science majors each semester, focusing either on cellu-
lar/molecular biology or organismal biology/biodiversity
(a two-semester introductory sequence). All levels of
biological organization and fundamental themes of bi-
ology are addressed in this sequence. The successful
candidates will join a vibrant, dynamic, and forward
thinking group of faculty engaged in undergraduate bi-
ology instruction across life science departments, includ-
ing several faculty who specialize in biology education
research. The University of Georgia is also home to
the SEER Center (Scientists Engaged in Education Re-
search), which supports collaborations among scientists
and educators across campus to improve undergraduate
STEM instruction.
Please submit applications online at http://-
facultyjobs.uga.edu/postings/1860. Applications,
as a single PDF le, should include a cover letter, CV,
and a teaching statement. The teaching statement
should address how the applicant incorporates the
National Academy/AAAS \Vision and Change" core
concepts and competencies in their teaching. Applicants
will be asked to provide names and e-mail addresses
of three references who will receive an online link for
submitting letters. Review of applications will begin on
March 13, 2017 and continue until the position is lled.
Informal enquiries and questions may be addressed
to the chair of the search committee, Lisa Donovan
(pbio-depthead@uga.edu).
The University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion/Vet/Disability institution. All qualied applicants
will receive consideration for employment without regard
to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability,
gender identity, sexual orientation or protected veteran
status. The Franklin College of Arts and Sciences, its
many units, and the University of Georgia are commit-ted to increasing the diversity of its faculty and students,
and sustaining a work and learning environment that
is inclusive. Women, minorities and people with dis-
abilities are encouraged to apply. Faculty members are
expected to support the college's goals of creating and
sustaining a diverse and inclusive learning environment.
Georgia is well known for its quality of life and both out-
door and urban activities (http://exploregeorgia.org).
UGA is a land- and sea-grant institution located in
Athens, 70 miles northeast of Atlanta, the state capital
(www.visitathensga.com; www.uga.edu).
Dorset Trapnell <dorset@uga.edu >
UIllinois Chicago
TeachingEcolEvolution
CLINICAL ASSISTANT PROFESSOR (ECOLOGY
AND EVOLUTION) POSITION AVAILABLE at the
University of Illinois at Chicago
The Department of Biological Sciences at the University
of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) invites applications for an
open clinical-track position at the assistant professor
level. Located in the heart of Chicago, UIC is one of
the nation's leading research universities. Numerous op-
portunities exist for collaborative research in biological
sciences across disciplines at UIC and with colleagues
and institutions throughout the Chicago region.
Successful candidate will be expected to provide instruc-
tion for the General Ecology and Evolution Laboratory
course, and additionally a second course in line with
his/her expertise. Successful candidate must be com-
fortable training, supervising and coordinating gradu-
ate teaching assistants to undertake lab-based exercises
(eldtrips and experimental design) for Ecology and
Evolution majors. Responsibilities also include coordi-
nation with eld oces from Department of Natural
Resources (Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois) to undertake
student eldtrips.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. degree and a demon-
strated record of teaching accomplishments, and ex-
perience with training teaching assistants. Research
background is a plus. To receive full consideration,
candidates must complete an on-line application includ-
ing the names and email addresses of three references
and submit a CV, research and teaching statements,
at https://jobs.uic.edu/job-board/job-details?jobID=-
76324 by March 7, 2017. Final authorization of the68 EvolDir March 1, 2017
positions is subject to availability of state funding. Ques-
tions should be directed to Jacquelyn DeLaurentis at
jdelaur@uic.edu.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an armative
action/equal opportunity employer, dedicated to the
goal of building a culturally diverse pluralistic faculty
and sta committed to teaching in a multicultural en-
vironment. We strongly encourage applications from
women, minorities, individuals with disabilities and cov-
ered veterans.
The University of Illinois may conduct background
checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a con-
tingent oer. Background checks will be performed in
compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Jacquelyn DeLaurentis Human Resource Associate Uni-
versity of Illinois at Chicago Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 845 W Taylor St, Room 3238 (M/C 066)
Chicago, IL 60607 (312) 996-2213 jFax:(312)413-3277
jdelaur@uic.edu
Jacquelyn DeLaurentis <jdelaur@uic.edu >
UIllinois UC LabTech
EvolutionaryImmunology
Lab technician position in evolutionary immunology of
human and non-human primates
The Brinkworth Evolutionary Immunology and Ge-
nomics lab at the University of Illinois Urbana-
Champaign is seeking a laboratory technician. The
position is responsible for the completion of cell exper-
iments, including bacterial and parasitic infections of
mammalian cells, maintenance of parasite and cell pop-
ulations, molecular library construction and cell-based
assays, as well as maintenance of the lab and its inven-
tory. This is a year long academic hourly position to
start in April/May, 2017, with the possibility of renewal,
pending funding.
Essential Qualications
The successful candidate will have experience with
clean, immunological technique
bacterial culture
infecting eukaryotic cells
the following molecular techniques to collect data on
biological function and genetics: ELISA, PCR, nucleicacid extraction
Preferred Qualications
The successful candidate will ideally have experience
with
culturing micro-organisms
maintenance of eukaryotic cell culture
training in next generation sequencing analysis
FACS analysis
working in research teams
Position Requirements and Qualications
Required: Bachelor degree in Biology or a related eld
Preferred: Bachelor degree in Microbiology, Parasitology
or Immunology
The ideal candidate for this job is senior undergrad-
uate/newly graduated undergraduate interested in in-
fectious disease or human evolution, interested in ex-
panding their lab experience before pursuing graduate
education.
We are interested in individuals who can raise intra-
cellular parasite/bacterial populations and infect eu-
karyotic cells in BSL2 conditions using clean technique.
Candidates should have experience reading scientic
literature in immunology, genomics, evolution and dis-
ease. Please visit the lab's website for more information
www.jfbrinkworth.com Individuals interested in this po-
sition should send a CV and cover letter along with the
names and contact information of two references to Dr.
Brinkworth at jfbrinkw@illinois.edu, by *February 28th,
2017.*
Jessica Brinkworth <jfbrinkworth@gmail.com >
UNebraska TeachingBiol
TheSchool of Biological Sciences at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln is seeking applications for an Assis-
tant or Associate Professor of Practice in Biology. This
is a non-tenure-track position with a renewable con-
tract. The applicant will be expected to teach high-
enrollment introductory biology courses as a primary
assignment. The applicant will play an important in-
structional and leadership role in the sequence of in-
troductory courses for all life sciences majors across
the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Areas of instruc-
tional expertise could include Cellular Biology/Genetics,March 1, 2017 EvolDir 69
Physiology, Microbiology, Human Anatomy, or Ecol-
ogy/Evolution. Additionally, prior experience could
include instruction in large introductory lecture and
laboratory classes and/or research on college science
education. The applicant will benet from interacting
with the active community of Discipline-Based Educa-
tional Researchers across science departments at the
University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
Minimumqualications include a PhD in Biology, Biol-
ogy Education, or related disciplines. Preferred quali-
cations include one semester post-doctoral teaching or
research experience.
Tolearn more about the University of Nebraska and the
School of Biological Sciences, visit http://biosci.unl.edu
. Applicantsshould go to http://employment.unl.edu,
search for requisition number F 160254. Click \Apply
to this Job" and complete the faculty form. Attach a
letter of application, a Curriculum Vitae, a statement of
teaching strategies/experience/interests, and a summary
of research experience. Combine the statement of teach-
ing and the summary of research into one document
and attach as \Other Document." Arrange for three
letters of reference to be sent to biologysearch@unl.edu.
Questions regarding the application process may be sent
to biologysearch@unl.edu. Review of applications will
begin on March 6, 2017 and continue until the position
is lled or the search is closed.
TheUniversity of Nebraska is committed to a pluralistic
campus community through armative action, equal
opportunity, work-life balance, and dual careers. See
http://www.unl.edu/equity/notice-nondiscrimination .
kmontooth2@unl.edu
UOulu EvolutionaryGenomics
Tenure Track Position in Evolutionary Genomics
The University of Oulu is an international scientic com-
munity, with 16 000 students and approximately 3 000
employees. The strenghts of the University are wide
multidisciplinary study/research interests and modern
research and study environment and good cooperation
with international educational and research institutes.
More information http://www.oulu./english/ The fol-
lowing position is open in the University of Oulu:
Tenure track position as Associate Professor in Evolu-
tionary Genomics
Field and LocationThe Faculty of Science of the University of Oulu an-
nounces a tenure-track opening for an Associate Profes-
sor in evolutionary genomics. The position is located
at the Ecology and Genetics Research Unit whose re-
search emphasis is in evolutionary biology and popu-
lation genetics, with groups studying population ge-
nomics of plants, forest genetic resources and breeding,
ecological genomics, conservation genetics, DNA bar-
coding, ancient DNA, animal behaviour and population
and community ecology. It is considered an advan-
tage if the applicant's research is multidisciplinary and
is related to the research environment at the Ecology
and Genetics Research Unit. The Unit has excellent
laboratory facilities, including access to quantitative
PCR, next generation sequencing (Ion Torrent) and
Sanger sequencing equipment and direct access to clean
(ancient-DNA) laboratories in the Center of Microscopy
and Nanotechnology (http://www.oulu./cmnt/); fur-
ther facilities are available at the Biocenter Sequenc-
ing Center (http://www.oulu./biocenter/sequencing-
center), including an Illumina NextSeq 550. Botanical
gardens of the University provide greenhouses and exper-
imental eld sites. The Oulanka (http://www.oulu./-
oulankaresearchstation) and Krunni eld stations of-
fer support for eld studies. The Unit has extensive
national and international collaborative networks, for
example, with the Finnish Natural Resource Institute
(https://www.luke./en/) and the Finnish Environmen-
tal Institute (http://www.syke./en-US), which have
oces at the University campus.
The successful applicant of this call will be placed at
the level of Associate Professor in tenure track system
(http://www.oulu./university/node/38379) and is ex-
pected to qualify as Full Professor after one or two
ve-year xed periods. To develop his/her research, the
new Associate Professor will receive a starting grant
from the Faculty of Science.
Job Responsibilities, Required Qualications and Lan-
guage Prociency
The tenure track position holder is responsible for devel-
oping teaching and research in genetics, genomics and
bioinformatics. The person nominated to the post is
expected to develop co-operation with research groups
acting at the University of Oulu, in other Finnish Uni-
versities, and with international parties. The required
qualications for the tenure track position in evolu-
tionary genetics include an applicable doctoral degree,
scientic research merit, and teaching skills required for
the position. The main prerequisites for the position are
active publication record, the ability to lead a research
group and to acquire external research funding: experi-
ence of academic work in more than one country and
a demonstrated ability for international co-operation70 EvolDir March 1, 2017
are considered valuable. The candidate should have
familiarity with the eld concerned, i.e. specialist com-
petence in evolutionary genomics, as demonstrated by
an outstanding international publication record.
When assessing the applicant's merits, issues taken into
consideration include scientic publications and other
research achievements, teaching experience and pedagog-
ical training as well as the skills to develop new teaching
material. In addition to this, the merits that will be
taken into consideration are the applicant's activity in
the scientic community, practical familiarity with the
eld concerned, and success in acquiring supplementary
funding, scientic work abroad and other international
activities.
The teaching language at the University of Oulu is
mainly Finnish at undergraduate levels. Teaching in
English is possible.
Salary
The salary will be based on the levels 6 - 7 of the de-
mand level chart for teaching and research personnel of
the salary system of Finnish Universities. In addition
to the basic salary of the appropriate tenure track level,
supplementary salary will be given for personal achieve-
ment and performance, the sum rising to a maximum of
46.3 % of the basic salary level for the post. The salary
thus being roughly 4,000 - 5,300 euros per month.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPittsburgh ResTech
EvolutionaryEcology
Research Technician at the University of Pittsburgh
The Turcotte Lab is seeking a Research Technician to
help conduct research exploring the rapid evolution of
species interactions.
If you are interested please see the job ad here:
https://www.pittsource.com/postings/132430 Mart
Martin Turcotte, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences University of Pittsburgh
www.martinturcotte.net turcotte@pitt.edu204A Clapp Hall, 4249 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA
15260, USA (412) 383-3297
\Turcotte, Martin" <TURCOTTE@pitt.edu >
URochester LabTech
EvolMolGenetics
Laboratory Technician IV in the evolutionary genomics
laboratory of Dr. Amanda Larracuente in the Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Rochester.
Position Summary:
Research technician in a lab studying the evolutionary
genomics of satellite DNA in Drosophila species.
The technician will work collaboratively with the lab
group in experimental design, and independently exe-
cute and analyze molecular and genetic research under
the supervision of the PI.
10% Manage and oversee day-to-day operations of the
laboratory such as: ordering, stocking and maintaining
lab supplies; keeping and updating laboratory records
and inventory; training of new lab personnel and main-
taining compliance with University and federal safety
regulations.
50% Independently carry out experiments involving
molecular biology and genetics techniques such as: DNA
extractions, quantitative PCR, Southern, Northern and
Western blot analysis, cytogenetics, molecular cloning
(e.g. designing CRISPR constructs); Drosophila hus-
bandry and genetics. The technician must be able to
think critically, work independently, manage data and
experimental materials, and carefully document all re-
search activities in a well-organized lab notebook. The
successful applicant will work well with researchers with
a wide spectrum of expertise and education levels.
10% Research, record, and develop protocols indepen-
dently with direction from the PI. Analyze data and
prepare reports.
10% Aid in establishing and maintaining genetic crosses
and scoring progeny. Some basic understanding of genet-
ics is required and experience with Drosophila genetics
is highly desired.
20% Supervision of undergraduates and lab employees,
and helping graduate students troubleshoot problems
that may arise with experimental protocols and lab
equipment.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 71
Qualications:
The ideal applicant will have a B.A, B.S. or M.S. in
biology with at least 1 year of laboratory experience in
molecular and cell biology.
Instructions
Apply online, job ID 199816.
https://ps.its.rochester.edu/psp/-
PSApplyOnline/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/-
HRS HRAM.HRS APP SCHJOB.GBL?Page=-
HRS APP SCHJOB&Action=U&FOCUS=-
Applicant&SiteId=1 Larracuente Lab: http://-
blogs.rochester.edu/larracuente UofR E2G2: http:/-
/blogs.rochester.edu/EEB/ UofR BIO: http://-
www.rochester.edu/college/BIO/ The University
of Rochester is an Equal Opportunity Employer,
has a strong commitment to diversity, and actively
encourages applications from candidates from groups
underrepresented in higher education. EOE Minorities
/ Females / Protected Veterans / Disabled
Amanda M. Larracuente, PhD Assistant Professor Uni-
versity of Rochester Department of Biology 343 Hutchi-
son Hall Rochester, NY 14627
E-mail: alarracu@bio.Rochester.edu Oce: 585-273-
1693 http://blogs.rochester.edu/larracuente/ alar-
racu@UR.Rochester.edu
USydney 2 EvolutionaryBiology
Lecturerin Evolutionary Biology (2 positions)
Schoolof Life and Environmental Sciences Facultyof Sci-
ence Referenceno. 176/0117
- Teaching and research focused role as part of a col-
laborative and supportive team - Up to two positions
available - Full-time xed term for four years, remuner-
ation package: $117K p.a. which includes base salary,
leave loading and up to 17% superannuation
TheUniversity of Sydney is Australia's rst university
and has an outstanding global reputation for academic
and research excellence. We employ over 7600 perma-
nent sta, supporting over 60,000 students.
Researchersfrom the life, earth and environmental sci-
ences in the School of Life and Environmental Sciences
have been brought together to address global challenges.
The School has an outstanding reputation for world
class research in numerous elds, including ecology and
evolutionary biology. Our excellent life sciences researchand teaching are shaping new approaches required to
address a range of increasingly important challenges
faced by the world that span a range of disciplinary ar-
eas, including antibiotic-resistant bacteria, maintaining
ecosystems, and food security.
Twopositions are available as a Lecturer (Level B) in
Evolutionary Biology, one focusing on evolutionary ge-
netics, the other on molecular evolution. The successful
candidates can start immediately and ideally before July
2017.
Inthis role you will: - conduct high-quality scientic re-
search in the eld of evolutionary genetics or molecular
evolution - contribute to undergraduate and Honours
teaching in evolutionary biology, including unit coor-
dination and development and delivery of material -
contribute to the intellectual life of the Ecology, Evolu-
tion, and Environment cluster within the School of Life
and Environmental Sciences
Tosucceed in this position you will have: - a PhD in Evo-
lutionary Biology or closely related discipline - demon-
strated ability to conduct high-quality scientic research
in the eld of evolutionary biology and to lead research
projects - demonstrated ability to communicate the re-
sults of research in reputable journals and at scientic
meetings - an ability to develop and teach units of study
at Junior, Intermediate, and Senior levels in evolution-
ary biology - an ability to initiate and supervise research
projects for undergraduate and postgraduate students
Allapplications must be submitted via the Uni-
versity of Sydney careers website. Visit syd-
ney.edu.au/recruitment and search by the reference num-
ber for more information and to apply.
Closingdate: 27 February 2017 (11:30pm, Sydney time)
Weare committed to diversity and social inclusion. We
welcome applications from women (particularly for se-
nior and non-traditional roles), Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people, people with a disability, people
who identify as LGBTIQ, and people from culturally
and linguistically diverse backgrounds.
^A ©The University of Sydney
TheUniversity reserves the right not to proceed with
any appointment.
simon.ho@sydney.edu.au72 EvolDir March 1, 2017
UZurich MorphologicalVariability
The Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zurich
invites applications for an Assistant Professorship in
Morphological Variability
The position is available for up to six years at the In-
stitute of Evolutionary Medicine (Director: Prof. Dr.
Frank Ruhli). We are looking for a young and dynamic
personality at an early stage in his/her career, exible
and willing to establish a highly visible research port-
folio in a new area. Successful candidates will have
demonstrated ability to independently conceive novel
research projects and bring them to successful comple-
tion. Graduate studies in the eld of biomedicine (MD
and/or PhD), as well as documented expertise in hu-
man anatomy and morphology are a prerequisite for
this position. We seek applicants with an internation-
ally recognized scientic track record and a genuine
interest to establish interdisciplinary research collabora-
tions with translational prospects in Zurich. We expect
strong interest for modern teaching methods and for
promotion of junior scientists in their academic career.
Key personality traits are excellent social skills and an
open, integrative personality Knowledge of the German
Language is not mandatory, however to acquire some
prociency in German over time is expected. The Uni-
versity of Zurich is an equal opportunity employer. The
Faculty of Medicine implements specic measures in the
selection process to increase the proportion of women
with a faculty position.
Please hand in your application for this posi-
tion at https://www.recruiting.med.uzh.ch/position/-
9994240 by March 30st, 2017.
For additional information, please contact the president
of the search committee, Prof. Dr. Anita Rauch: Tel.
+41 44 556 33 00, anita.rauch@medgen.uzh.ch.
Dr. phil. Caroline Kruger Leiterin Stab Beru-
fungen Universitat Zurich Medizinische Fakultat,
Dekanat Pestalozzistrasse 3/5 CH-8091 Zurich +41
44 634 10 67 Telefon www.med.uzh.ch caro-
line.krueger@dekmed.uzh.ch Anwesend: Di, Do, Fr
\caroline.krueger@dekmed.uzh.ch"
<caroline.krueger@dekmed.uzh.ch >Worcester Mass ResAssoc
DrosophilaMolEvol
The Findlay Lab in the Department of Biology at the
College of the Holy Cross seeks a full-time Research
Associate for an NSF-funded project on the impact of
newly evolved genes on male reproduction in Drosophila.
A primary responsibility of this position is to manage
the laboratory on a day-to-day basis and assist in the
training of undergraduate research students. However,
the research associate will also have an independent
research project relating to the function and evolution
of a newly evolved gene(s).
The associate will be responsible for:
-training undergraduate research students in Drosophila
husbandry and genetics and in basic molecular biology
and cytology -constructing transgenic y lines through
molecular cloning and y crossing -maintaining all lab y
stocks -monitoring, aliquoting and ordering lab reagents
-developing experimental procedures and written proto-
cols that are accessible to student researchers -complying
with lab safety regulations and interacting with the col-
lege's lab safety ocer -modeling and implementing
appropriate data management practices -assisting, on
occasion, in the preparation of materials for teaching
laboratories or outreach demonstrations -preparation of
media and reagents and maintenance of a well-organized,
orderly lab -contributing to the preparation of research
publications and presentations
Required qualications: At least two years of full-time,
wet-lab experience. Hands-on experience with the hus-
bandry and genetics of Drosophila fruit ies, as well as
with common molecular biology protocols such as PCR,
cloning, and nucleic acid isolation. Strong skills in data
analysis and oral and written communication. Ability
to teach undergraduates in a lab setting.
Preferred qualications include an advanced degree
(Master's or PhD) in genetics, cellular/molecular bi-
ology, or a related eld; experience with immunou-
orescence and confocal microscopy; experience with
CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing; experience
with molecular evolution techniques and genome
databases; and, experience mentoring undergraduate
students.
Additional Information:
This is an Exempt level position. The College is anMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 73
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer and com-
plies with all Federal and Massachusetts laws concerning
Equal Opportunity and Armative Action in the work-
place. Holy Cross is a member of the Higher Education
Consortium of Central Massachusetts (HECCMA) and
the Boston Consortium.
To review our Employee Benet Options, please go to:
http://www.holycross.edu/human-resources/benets
Application Instructions:
To apply for this position, please submit: a cover letter
that describes your interest in the position and quali-
cations; a CV; and, the names and contact information
of two references who can provide letters of recommen-
dation upon completion of the search. In your cover
letter, please include a brief reection on how you might
contribute to the College's commitment to diversity and
inclusion (see http://holycross.edu/diversity). Further-
more, we encourage candidates to review the College's
mission at http://holycross.edu/mission, and include
any reections on contributions you might make in that
area.
To learn more about the Findlay Lab, see: https://-
sites.google.com/a/holycross.edu/ndlaylab/ Questions
about the Findlay Lab can be directed to the PI, Geo
Findlay ( gndlay@holycross.edu). Questions about the
application process should be directed to Deb Paquette
in the HR department (dpaquett@holycross.edu). To
apply, visit: https://holycross.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=3D80382 { Geo Findlay,
PhD Assistant Professor Department of Biology College
of the Holy Cross (508) 793-2655 gndlay@holycross.edu
https://sites.google.com/a/holycross.edu/ndlaylab/
\gndlay@holycross.edu" <gndlay@holycross.edu >
ZFMK UBonn
EvolutionaryGenomics
Tenure-track research position in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics
The Center of Molecular Biodiversity Research (https:/-
/www.zfmk.de/en/zmb) at the Zoological Research Mu-
seum Alexander Koenig (ZFMK) seeks enthusiastic, cre-
ative, and productive applicants for a full time tenure
track position in the eld of Evolutionary Genomics.
The evolutionary analysis of rapidly expanding genomic
datasets requires development and implementation of
sophisticated laboratory techniques, rigorous computa-tional approaches, and theoretical work. The successful
applicant is expected to develop a strong, independent,
externally funded research program for a better un-
derstanding of the evolution of zoological biodiversity,
contributing to novel insights in evolution from analyses
of complex genomic datasets. We are particularly in-
terested in candidates performing comparative genomic
research over a wide range of taxa and/or in candi-
dates developing theoretical foundations of evolutionary
genomics. We seek an innovative and accomplished
scientist whose research program will complement and
diversify existing departmental research areas includ-
ing integrative taxonomy, phylogenomics, evolution and
biodiversity research on animals.
Assessment Criteria: The ranking of eligible applicants
will be based primarily on research expertise. Research
expertise comprises genomics research merits as well
as the applicant ^As potential to contribute to the fu-
ture development of evolutionary genomics. In assessing
research expertise, special weight will be given to large-
scale comparative genomic studies, evolutionary studies,
and research on non-model animals. Special weight will
also be paid to scientic independence and the ability,
or expected ability, to attract external funding. The
planned research of the applicant shall complement on-
going research in the Center of Molecular Biodiversity
Research. The candidate is expected to establish an
international competitive research group, to successfully
apply for research grants, to publish in international rec-
ognized journals, and to tightly collaborate with other
research groups at the ZFMK.
Required qualications: It is essential that the applicant
has
a PhD in Evolution or Molecular Biology or a closely
related eld with strong emphasis on evolutionary ge-
nomics; experience in working with non-model organ-
isms (animals); an internationally competitive publica-
tion record; experience analysing DNA sequence and
genome data (computational skills); experience in sta
management and student supervision; motivation to
work in a team and take responsibility; excellent com-
munication skills.
The ZFMK is a Zoological Research Museum of the Leib-
niz Association cooperating with the University of Bonn,
funded by the Federal State of NRW and the federal
government. The Center of Molecular Biodiversity Re-
search has been established to foster molecular research
spanning from genomics and speciation genetic research
to developing high-throughput bar-coding applications.
We oer a highly motivating environment and ability to
work independently. Salary and benets are according
to a public service position in Germany (E13, TVL-13).74 EvolDir March 1, 2017
An upgrade of salary and benets to E14, TVL-14 is pos-
sible and will be subject of the tenure evaluation. The
ZFMK advocates gender equality. Women are therefore
strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualied severely
disabled applicants will be given preference. The con-
tract will start as soon as possible and will initially be
restricted to three years. A tenured position will be
subject to personal performance reviewed by a commis-
sion. Please send your application by e-mail attachment,including a detailed CV, a research plan, a list of success-
ful grant applications, names of three potential referees
and ve publications, until March 15th 2017 to Mrs.
Heike Lenz (e-mail: h.lenz@leibniz-zfmk.de). In case of
questions concerning the position please contact Prof.
Dr. Bernhard Misof, Head of the Center of Molecular
Biodiversity Research (e-mail: b.misof@leibniz-zfmk.de).
For more information about the museum see http://-
www.zfmk.de Bernhard Misof <bmisof@uni-bonn.de >
Other
1000 genomes teaching tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
Animal behaviour recordings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
CallForPapers MaleCompetitionSpeciation CurrentZool
75
CHTurner award AnimalBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Dartmouth Summer Undergraduate REU . . . . . . . . . 76
ESEB CongressAidGrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
ESEB OpportunitiesFund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
EvoEd Cases User Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Evolution VideoContest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Grant TreesForYouAndMe ApplicationsCloseMay1 79
KansasStateU SummerREU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Minnesota ChicagoBotanicGarden ResearchIntern
PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Minnesota SummerResInternships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
MolluscEvolution StudentAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80Phyloseminar TimVaughan Feb23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Restore evolution to Turkeys curriculum . . . . . . . . . . .81
Sanger sequencing genotyping facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Scholarship For Cladistics course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Sequence Mutation Simulator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Smithsonian VideoContest Conservation . . . . . . . . . . .82
SouthAfrica VolResAssist CooperativeBehaviour . . .83
Spain VolResAssist StarlingPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . 83
SSB ErnstMayr Award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
SystematicsResearchFund DeadlineFeb15 . . . . . . . . . . 85
T H HuxleyCallForApplications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UMinnesota REU Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UTexas REU SwitchgrassGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Wageningen FieldAssist BirdEvolutionaryDynamics 87
1000 genomes teaching tools
Does anyone have labs/exercises they can share for using
1000 genomes data sets as a teaching tool? I'm running
an upper division evolution course and I'd like the stu-dents to gain some familiarity with the human pop gen
tools that are available. Any recommendations?
{ Diane Ramos, PhD
Associate Professor Natural Sciences Department Dae-
men College 4380 Main St. Amherst, NY 14226
Duns Scotus 329 dramos@daemen.edu 716.839.8560
\dramos@daemen.edu" <dramos@daemen.edu >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 75
Animal behaviour recordings
Dear All,
I'm developing two courses on ethology and behavioural
ecology, for undergrad and MSc level studies. I'm
currently on the lookout for video recordings of ani-
mal behaviour which I could use at some of the early
classes to introduce students to making and noting
down behavioural observations and subsequently, de-
veloping ethograms. If you have any material which
you think could be useful for such purpose - whether
from experimental or observational studies or monitor-
ing of any animal species - and would be willing to
share, please contact me at zoa.prokop <at>uj.edu.pl
<zoa.prokop@uj.edu.pl >- I will be hugely grateful.
Many thanks, Zoa
{ { Dr. Zoa Prokop Molecular and Behavioral Ecol-
ogy Group Jagiellonian University Gronostajowa 7 30-
387 Krakow, Poland tel. +48 12 664 5151 e-mail:
zoa.prokop <at>uj.edu.pl<zoa.prokop@uj.edu.pl >
*Google Scholar prole <http://scholar.google.co.nz/-
citations?user=58lKo7IAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao >*
Zoa Prokop <zoa.prokop@uj.edu.pl >
CallForPapers
MaleCompetitionSpeciation
CurrentZool
We are excited to solicit papers on male competition
and speciation for a special column in an upcoming issue
of Current Zoology. Please feel free to contact any of
the guest editors with inquiries.
SPECIAL COLUMN: Male Competition and Speciation
(https://academic.oup.com/cz/pages/malecompetition)
GUEST EDITORS: Alycia Lackey (aly-
cia.reynolds@gmail.com), Michael Martin ( md-
martin7@gmail.com), and Robin Tinghitella
(Robin.Tinghitella@du.edu)
DESCRIPTION: Despite our long-standing pursuit
to understand the evolution and maintenance of newspecies, we still lack a clear understanding of mecha-
nisms of speciation. Speciation remains an important
focus due to its role in the evolution and maintenance
of biodiversity; this is particularly critical given current
and predicted global change and loss of biodiversity.
Sexual selection is a powerful source of rapid evolu-
tionary change, and there is a long-standing hypothesis
that it can cause reproductive isolation (i.e., when male
mating signals and female preferences for those signals
diversify). However, this understanding of speciation
by sexual selection is largely limited to sexual selection
via female mate choice. Male competition for mates,
Darwin's second mechanism of sexual selection, can
also favor rapid and dramatic phenotypic and genotypic
changes, yet it has been all but overlooked in speciation
research.
This special column will address when and how male
competition can generate or maintain population or
species dierences. The aims of this special column are
to: 1) expand our current speciation framework to in-
clude the contribution of male competition to speciation
by sexual selection 2) examine the importance of male
competition at dierent stages of divergence (e.g., within
populations, between diverging populations, between
distinct species) 3) explore the diversity of mechanisms
by which male competition drives divergence 4) motivate
future work by identifying unanswered questions
TIMELINE: Deadline for title submission: April 1, 2017
(email to guest editor) Deadline for manuscript submis-
sion: June 10, 2017 Manucript handling (paper review-
ing + revision): August 30, 2017 Publication: 6th issue,
2017
A title should be sent to the guest editors and
manuscripts should be submitted before the deadline.
Manuscripts received after the deadline will be consid-
ered as submissions for regular issues.
Submitted papers should not have been published pre-
viously, nor will be under consideration for publication
elsewhere. Submitted manuscripts are accepted with the
understanding that they are subject to peer review and
editorial revision. Publication is free of page charges.
An example special column: Here is a recent special
column on sexual selection and speciation. Scroll down
to \Editorial" and the \Articles" that follow. https:/-
/academic.oup.com/cz/issue/58/3 Alycia R. Lackey
Postdoctoral Researcher Whiteman Lab 2112 Biology
Building Murray State University Murray, KY 42071
oce: 270-809-3224 alyciarlackey.weebly.com
alycia.reynolds@gmail.com76 EvolDir March 1, 2017
CHTurner award AnimalBehavior
Have talented undergraduates interested in Animal Be-
havior? Encourage students to apply for the Charles H.
Turner Award to present at the Animal Behavior Soci-
ety meeting.|This year, the Animal Behavior Society
meeting will be held in Toronto, Canada, June 12 - 16,
2017. |The deadline for the Turner Award is February
28, 2017. More information about the Turner Award
and the Animal Behavior Society meeting can be found
at the link below.|
What: Charles H. Turner AwardDeadline: February 28,
2017Where: Animal Behavior Society meeting held in
Toronto, Canada.|link:|Animal Behavior Society
Animal Behavior Society
Delia S. Shelton, Ph.D IGB Leibniz Institute of Fresh-
water Ecology and Inland Fisheries/University of Wind-
sor/Oregon State University NSF Postdoctoral Fellow
\delsshel@indiana.edu" <delsshel@indiana.edu >
Dartmouth Summer Undergraduate
REU
Research Experience for Undergraduates in Computa-
tional Biology - Dartmouth College - Summer 2017
The Zhaxybayeva lab in the Biology department at Dart-
mouth College (http://www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ecglab/)
is pleased to announce an NSF Research Experience for
Undergraduates (REU) position to study the evolution-
ary history of enigmatic, virus-like entities called Gene
Transfer Agents (GTAs). As their name implies, GTAs
are hypothesized to be used by bacteria as gene deliv-
ery systems. The Zhaxybayeva lab uses comparative
genomics, phylogenetics, and mathematical modeling
to learn more about this fascinating biological system.
This internship is ideal for candidates with background
in mathematics, statistics, computer science, or engi-
neering interested in exploring how computational ap-
proaches are used in solving biological problems. The
student is not expected to have prior experience working
with biological systems. The student will work closely
with Dr. Olga Zhaxybayeva and Dr. Shannon Soucyand will learn the basics of genomic analyses, how to
utilize high performance computing facilities, read pri-
mary scientic literature, and present scientic research.
The candidate must be a citizen or permanent resident
of the United States of America or its possessions, and
enrolled as an undergraduate student in the Fall 2017.
Individuals of underrepresented groups are encouraged
to apply. The 9-week internship is tentatively expected
to begin on June 21, 2017 and end on August 18, 2017.
The candidate will receive $4,500 stipend, and will be
reimbursed for the costs of lodging and travel to Dart-
mouth College.
To apply, please e-mail the following application ma-
terials in a single PDF le to Shannon Soucy (Shan-
non.Soucy@dartmouth.edu) with the subject line \REU"
no later than March 10, 2017: 1. A statement with
the following information: a. Why you are interested
in this position. b. Your future plans after graduation
from college. c. Conrmation of your eligibility for
the REU program. d. Dates you are available to start
and end this position. e. The name and contact infor-
mation of one person who will serve as your reference.
Please arrange the letter of recommendation to be sent
to Shannon.Soucy@dartmouth.edu directly by your ref-
erence. f. Your email address and phone number. 2.
Curriculum Vitae (or resume). 3. Transcript (unocial
is acceptable).
Dartmouth College is an equal opportunity/armative
action employer with a strong commitment to diver-
sity and inclusion. We prohibit discrimination on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disabil-
ity, veteran status, marital status, or any other legally
protected status.
{ Olga Zhaxybayeva, Ph.D. The Simons Foundation
Investigator and Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical Sciences Dartmouth College 333 LSC 78 College
Street Hanover, NH 03755 USA
Oce: (603) 646-8616 Lab: (603) 646-
9397 Email: olgazh@dartmouth.edu Web:
http://www.dartmouth.edu/ ~ ecglab/-
http://dartmouth.edu/faculty-directory/olga-
zhaxybayeva \Olga.Zhaxybayeva@dartmouth.edu"
<Olga.Zhaxybayeva@dartmouth.edu >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 77
ESEB CongressAidGrant
*** ESEB Equal Opportunities Congress Attendance
Aid Grants ***
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology is
pleased to announce the call for application for the
ESEB Equal Opportunities Congress Attendance Aid
Grants 2017.
The grants are aimed to increase the attendance of
women at ESEB congress. These stipends are nancial
aid for female scientists to help with the additional costs
borne privately due to responsibilities for dependents
when attending the ESEB congress. The stipend will
contribute to covering expenses for care of dependents,
but also for travel.
Deadline: Friday, 20 February 2017
ELIGIBILITY
- Applicants must be ESEB members (for becoming a
member of ESEB please visit http://eseb.org/society/-
membership/). - Applications can be submitted by
scientists at any stages of their professional career (e.g.,
Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and lecturers). -
Applicants must explain explicitly how their attendance
will increase equal opportunities at the society - Appli-
cants must present either an oral communication or a
poster at the respective meeting to be eligible for the
award. This will be veried before the reimbursement,
but no proof that a poster or talk is accepted is necessary
at the application stage. - Applicants must detail how
they intend to use the grant. Eligible costs include, but
are not limited to: childcare on site, childcare at home,
extra care at home for dependents, extra travel costs
for babysitter (grandparents) etc. - The stipend will be
paid out as a at rate of 250, - EUR (in certain cases
up to 500, - EUR) after the congress when conrmation
of attendance is provided.
HOW TO APPLY
The application should be no more than 2 pages long
and include:
- Name of the applicant - An explanation of how at-
tendance to the meeting improves equal opportunities
at ESEB - An explanation of how attendance to the
meeting will further the attendant's professional goals -
Budget - CV
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le byemail to Ute Friedrich <oce@eseb.org; subject: EO
congress grant >at the ESEB Oce and take care to
limit the size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any
one email.
Kind regards, Ute Friedrich
Dr. Ute Friedrich jESEB Oce Manager Postfach
910225j90260 Nuernberg jGermanyjoce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology j
www.eseb.org
oce@eseb.org
ESEB OpportunitiesFund
** ESEB EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FUND **
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology is
pleased to announce the open call for proposals for
activities that increase knowledge and awareness of
the problem, and possible solutions. Such propos-
als can include, but are not limited to, short work-
shops (for instance, on unconscious bias) and/or sem-
inars (with invited speakers) at your home organiza-
tion, data collection, publication activities and similar
events. It must be clear from the proposal how the
activity will improve our knowledge and awareness of
unequal opportunities, or how the activity will improve
equal opportunities directly, in the ESEB specically,
or Evolutionary Biology as a eld in general. There
are two calls per year, with the next upcoming dead-
line being the 31st of March 2017. More information
about the Equal Opportunities Initiative is available
at http://eseb.org/prizes-funding/equal-opportunities-
initiative/equal-opportunities-initiative-fund/
*ELIGIBILITY* - The main applicant must be ESEB
member (for becoming a member of ESEB, please visit
http://eseb.org/society/membership/) - Applications
can be submitted by scientists at any stage of a profes-
sional career (e.g., Masters and PhD students, postdocs,
and lecturers). - Applicants must provide proof of sup-
port of the host institution where the activity should
take place, if applicable (letter from head of department)
- Applicants must explain explicitly how their activity
will improve our knowledge, awareness of unequal oppor-
tunities, or how the activity will improve equal oppor-
tunities directly, in ESEB specically, or Evolutionary
Biology as a eld in general. - Applicants must detail78 EvolDir March 1, 2017
which group of people, and how many, will benet from
this activity (for instance, 50 undergraduates, 10 gradu-
ate students, 15 faculty members) - Budgets should be
reasonable (usually not exceeding 1000, - EUR, if more
is required, please contact EO committee rst), and, if
applicable, detail costs per person (that benet from
this event).
*HOW TO APPLY*
The application should be no more than 3 pages long
(excluding CV and support letter) and include:
- Name of the applicant(s) - A proposal of the activity -
A short summary to be published on the website (100-
150 words) - An justication of how the activity will
improve our knowledge, awareness of unequal opportuni-
ties, or how the activity will improve equal opportunities
directly, in ESEB specically, or Evolutionary Biology
as a eld in general. - Which group of people will bene-
t (students, sta, general public), and how many - A
detailed, justied budget (including cost per beneciary)
- A time schedule - CVs of the applicants - A letter of
support of the host institution's head of the department
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le by
email to Ute Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: EO
Fund) at the ESEB Oce and take care to limit the
size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any one email.
Successful applications must hand in a report about
the activity and including details how funds were spent
within 3 months after the event.
{ ESEB Oce Manager European Society for Evolution-
ary Biology Email: oce@eseb.org Website: eseb.org
oce@eseb.org
EvoEd Cases User Survey
As part of an NSF-funded research project to improve
the EvoEd Cases and broaden their impact, we are
collecting survey data on how the cases are currently
being used in classrooms. The survey can be found
here: https://goo.gl/77xVjX . EvoEd Cases (www.evo-
ed.org) provide compelling examples of the evolution
of traits from the genetic level to protein function, cell
biology, and macroecology. These cases can help stu-
dents examine how genetic and evolutionary processes
are interlinked across dierent biological scales. Any
educator (K-16) who completes the survey will be eligi-
ble for a gift card drawing, provided they have used thecases in their classroom. Participation is voluntary and
responses will be de-identied prior to dissemination of
the results. If you have any questions, you can contact
the project director, Peter White, at pwhite@msu.edu.
Thank you!
Alexa R. Warwick, Ph.D. Evolution Education and Out-
reach Postdoc BEACON Center 567 Wilson Road, BPS
1450 Michigan State University East Lansing, MI 48824
Phone: 517-884-2566 Email: awarwick@msu.edu Web-
site: arwarwick.weebly.com
\awarwick@msu.edu" <awarwick@msu.edu >
Evolution VideoContest
2017 Evolution Film Festival/Video Contest
Scientists and science educators of all stripes (students,
postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science com-
municators) are invited to enter the Seventh Annual
Evolution Video Competition, sponsored by the Duke
Initiative for Science & Society, the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute (HHMI), the Society for the Study
of Evolution (SSE) and the BEACON Center for the
Study of Evolution in Action.
To enter, please submit a video that explains a fun fact,
key concept, compelling question, or exciting area of
evolution research in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own research,
and should be suitable for use in a classroom (K-12, un-
dergraduate, graduate?? your choice). Videos should be
both informative and entertaining. (In other words, no
taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint presentations!)
Animations, music videos, and mini documentaries are
all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2017 Evolution
meeting in Portland, OR. (You do not need to attend
the conference in order to enter a video.)
First- and second-place winners will receive up to $1,000
and $500, respectively.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is FRIDAY, JUNE
2^nd (11:59 PM, EST).
For more information (and to see entries from previous
years) please visit evolutionlmfestival.org or contact
Jory Weintraub (jory@duke.edu)
Jory Weintraub <jory.weintraub@gmail.com >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 79
Grant TreesForYouAndMe
ApplicationsCloseMay1
Applicationsare now open for the Trees for You and
Me Grant oered by the American Association of Zoo
Keepers. The grant is a forest-based carbon oset grant
presented in conjunction with the American Association
of Zoo Keepers and Polar Bears International.
Applicantsdo NOT have to be American Association of
Zoo Keepers members. Funding is provided by Amer-
ican Association of Zoo Keepers chapters. Fundrais-
ing Deadlines is November 1, 2017. Last year, over
$15,000.00 were awarded between 2 applicants, both of
whose projects were centered around reforesting areas
to benet local wildlife and oset atmospheric CO2.
Moreinformation, as well as the application, can be
found here: https://www.aazk.org/committee/trees-for-
you-and-me/ Thanksfor the consideration and best of
luck to all applicants,
Hardy
HardyKern AnimalPrograms Specialist ColumbusZoo
and Aquarium AAZKSocial Media Team TFYMGrants
Coordinator 412-337-4673
hardy.kern@columbuszoo.onmicrosoft.com
KansasStateU SummerREU
Thedeadline for the REU site program at Kansas State
University \Ecology and Evolutionary Biology of Chang-
ing Environments: Integrating from Genomes to Biomes"
is a little more than two weeks away. We invite appli-
cations for the 10-week summer program, which will
provide a foundation in integrative research, scientic
communication, and professional development in ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology. Each summer we have
a diverse set of research projects addressing responses
to changing environments and the underlying genetic,
developmental, physiological, or ecological mechanisms.
Over 30 faculty from the Division of Biology and Depart-
ments of Entomology, Plant Pathology, and Statistics
are available to serve as mentors.Summer2017 is the 22nd year for the Kansas State Uni-
versity Biology REU site. The program is hosted by the
Ecological Genomics Institute, Konza Prairie Biological
Station, and the Division of Biology at Kansas State
University. The program covers costs of accommoda-
tions during the summer. Participants will also receive a
generous stipend, food allowance, and travel allowance.
Participantsare selected for research potential based on
an application essay, application questionnaire, tran-
scripts, and supporting letters of recommendation.
Completeinformation about the program is available by
visiting http://www.ksu.edu/reu . Specicquestions can
be directed to the director of the program (Ted Morgan)
at biologyreu@ksu.edu.
Applicationdeadline is 15 February 2017.
TedMorgan Divisionof Biology KansasState University
239DChalmers Hall 785-532-6126 ksu.edu/morganlab
tjmorgan@ksu.edu
tjmorgan@ksu.edu
Minnesota ChicagoBotanicGarden
ResearchIntern PlantEvol
12 Month Research Internship 2017
Are you interested in gaining eld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interactions in fragmented prairie?
The Echinacea Project is oering several year-long re-
search internships for graduates and soon-to-be gradu-
ates. This is a great opportunity for individuals who
are considering graduate studies and are interested in
gaining research experience. We have diverse potential
projects for students with backgrounds or interests in
plant ecology, pollination biology, evolution, statistics,
conservation, and computer science. In the past, in-
terns have completed projects on a variety of topics
including pollination biology, prairie restoration, and
plant-herbivore interactions. In the summer, you will
survey natural plant populations, measure plant traits
in experimental plots, hand-pollinate plants, observe
& collect insects, and assist in all aspects of research.
Summer housing in Minnesota (June - September) is
provided and there is a stipend. During the academic
year (October - May 2018), interns will develop inde-
pendent research projects, gain quantitative and data
management skills, and coordinate citizen scientists in
our lab, which is based at the Chicago Botanic Garden.80 EvolDir March 1, 2017
QUALIFICATIONS No experience is necessary, but you
must be enthusiastic and hard-working. Attention to
detail, a good sense of humor, and a positive attitude
are essential. Applicants must be available to begin in
Minnesota in early to mid-June. We welcome and en-
courage scientists of all backgrounds, particularly those
underrepresented in science, to apply to work with us!
MORE INFORMATION Information about our of-
ferings for the 2017-2018 year are here: http://-
echinaceaproject.org/opportunities/ . APPLICATION
DEADLINE Review of applications for year-long posi-
tions will begin on March 2nd. Applications for summer
REU positions are due on February 23rd.
The team and I are happy to answer any further ques-
tions.
|{ Stuart Wagenius, Ph.D. Conservation Scientist Divi-
sion of Plant Science and Conservation Chicago Botanic
Garden 1000 Lake Cook Road Glencoe, IL 60022 phone:
847 835 6978 fax: 847 835 6975 email: echinaceapro-
ject@gmail.com
Echinacea angustifolia <echinaceaproject@gmail.com >
Minnesota SummerResInternships
Summer Research Internships 2017
Are you interested in gaining eld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interactions in fragmented prairie?
The Echinacea Project is oering several summer re-
search internships for students and soon-to-be graduates.
We have diverse potential projects for students with
backgrounds or interests in plant ecology, pollination bi-
ology, evolution, statistics, conservation, and computer
science. In the past, interns have completed projects on
a variety of topics including pollination biology, prairie
restoration, and plant-herbivore interactions. Housing
in western Minnesota is provided and there is a stipend.
Undergraduate students have the opportunity to do an
independent project as an REU participant.
QUALIFICATIONS No experience is necessary, but
you must be enthusiastic and hard-working. You will
survey natural plant populations, measure plant traits
in experimental plots, hand-pollinate plants, observe
& collect insects, and assist in all aspects of research.
Applicants must be available to begin in Minnesota
in early June. The exact end date of the position in
late August or early September is exible. We welcomeand encourage scientists of all backgrounds, particularly
those underrepresented in science, to apply to work with
us!
MORE INFORMATION Information about our oer-
ings for summer 2017 and the 2017-2018 year are here:
http://echinaceaproject.org/opportunities/ . APPLI-
CATION DEADLINE Review of applications will begin
on February 23rd for REU internships and on March
2nd for other internship positions.
The team and I are happy to answer any further ques-
tions.
Stuart Wagenius, Ph.D. Conservation Scientist Division
of Plant Science and Conservation Chicago Botanic Gar-
den 1000 Lake Cook Road Glencoe, IL 60022 phone:
847 835 6978 fax: 847 835 6975 email: echinaceapro-
ject@gmail.com
Echinacea angustifolia <echinaceaproject@gmail.com >
MolluscEvolution StudentAwards
Dear all
Unitas Malacologica oers member-supported small
grants for student research activities.
Any project, related to any kind of mollusc, anywhere,
in any eld of science, will be considered. There is no
restriction on how the funds should be spent, though
the funds should not be used to supplement the income
of the awardee, and we do not support projects with
direct commercial or industrial applications.
These awards are generally granted to PhD students
who undertake a small, self contained project related to
their dissertation research. Awards will be made up to
a maximum of 1000 euro (= $1080 USD). Usually two
or three awards are granted each year, and the normal
value is around 750 euro.
The next deadline for applications is 30 April 2017.
To apply - submit the application form, and a letter of
recommendation, by email to j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk
The application form and links to reports
from past award winners is available at
www.unitasmalacologica.org/projects.html Please
spread the word, and good luck to all applicants!
Cheers,
JuliaMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 81
Dr Julia Sigwart Queen's University Belfast, Marine
Laboratory http://www.qub.ac.uk/qml/People/Sigwart
sabbatical address (2015-2018): University of California,
Berkeley, Museum of Paleontology
Julia Sigwart <j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk >
Phyloseminar TimVaughan Feb23
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/: Joint Bayesian in-
ference of bacterial ancestral recombination graphs Tim
Vaughan Auckland University Thursday, February 23,
2017, 12:00 PM PST
Homologous recombination is a central feature of bac-
terial evolution, yet confounds traditional phylogenetic
methods. In this seminar I will present a novel approach
to inferring bacterial evolution based on the ClonalOri-
gin model (Didelot et al., Genetics, 2010). This method
permits joint Bayesian inference of the entire bacterial
recombination graph and associated model parameters.
The method is implemented in the BEAST 2 phylo-
genetic inference package. It can be easily combined
with a variety of substitution models accounting for
site-to-site clock rate heterogeneity as well as paramet-
ric and non-parametric models of eective population
size dynamics. I will also present work on summariz-
ing posterior distributions over the space of tree-based
recombination graphs which, together with the joint in-
ference method, aims to bridge the technological gap be-
tween recombination-aware phylogenetic inference and
traditional methods.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fredhutch.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Restore evolution to Turkeys
curriculum
Dear colleagues,
I would like to share with you the below letter from
the President of the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Society of Turkey (which was also published in Nature
this week), calling for support for restoring evolutionary
biology to the country's curriculum.Best,
Mehmet
***
The Turkish government has announced its draft pri-
mary and secondary school curricula, which now contain
no mention of evolution. Turkey's Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Society (see go.nature.com/2kgajpu)
urges stakeholders, the Turkish public and the in-
ternational scientic community to support reinstate-
ment of evolution in the curriculum (comment to pro-
gramdegerlendirme@meb.gov.tr).
In the society's view, Turkey's proclaimed strategy to
attain excellence in the life and medical sciences must
be backed by a strong educational programme in evo-
lutionary biology. A mechanistic understanding of evo-
lutionary theory is crucial for addressing contemporary
challenges such as biodiversity loss. Evolutionary prin-
ciples have propelled advances in many elds, including
agriculture, medicine, pharmacy and nanotechnology.
The society, of which I am president, is willing to assist
the Turkish Ministry of National Education to restore
and expand evolutionary biology in the curriculum to
conform with international standards of biological edu-
cation.
{ Mehmet Somel METU Dept. Biology / ODT ~A Biyoloji
B ol um u 06800 Ankara, Turkey Tel: +90-543-9799060;
Oce: +90-312-2106460 Email: msomel@metu.edu.tr
Web: http://bio.metu.edu.tr/pp?un=3Dmsomel
aDNA Lab: http://adna.bio.metu.edu.tr/
somel.mehmet@googlemail.com82 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Sanger sequencing genotyping
facilities
Dear Evoldir,
Our regular sequencing and genotyping is closing tem-
porarily and I am keen to nd an alternative (in the
UK). We have ready-to-run samples for sequencing (i.e.
we have done the Big-Dye reaction and puried the
products and dried them down) as well as microsatel-
lites already amplied and ready to be genotyped. I was
hoping Evoldir members might have recommendations
of facilities that are reliable and cost-eective for both
sequencing and genotyping.
Best wishes, Mark
{ Dr. Mark A. Chapman M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk +44
(0)2380 594396
Centre for Biological Sciences University of Southamp-
ton Life Sciences Building 85 Higheld Campus
Southampton SO17 1BJ
markchapman4774@gmail.com
Scholarship For Cladistics course
Dear list members,
I will appreciate if you could share following information,
if you consider it appropriate. The course is open to
any researcher, but the scholarships are only for PhD
students:
Scholarships are available for the following course:
- QUANTITATIVE CLADISTICS AND USE OF
TNT- October 2nd-6th, 2017, Barcelona (Spain).
More info: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/phylogeny/quantitative-cladistics-use-tnt/
Deadline for applications March 31st: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/funding/scholarships/
With best regards,
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD. Sci-
entic Director Transmitting Sciencewww.transmittingscience.org Soledad De Esteban-
Trivigno<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Sequence Mutation Simulator
Colleagues,
I have an undergraduate computer science student who
wants to do an independent project in which she devel-
ops a mutation simulator based on empirical mutation
parameters.
I know there's a lot of evolutionary software out there
that incorporates a simuation of mutation distributions,
but I haven't found something that has mutated se-
quences as the output. I'm not any kind of computer
coder, so I don't know how to look at a piece of software
to tell whether some routine inside it might be a helpful
starting point. If any of you can point us to an open-
source program that she could crack open and tinker
with, or even just something you've written for yourself,
that would be much appreciated. I'd really like to avoid
her re-inventing the wheel if it's already out there.
Send responses to me at dudycha [at] biol.sc.edu
Thanks,
Je {
Jery L. Dudycha Professor Dept. of Biological Sciences
University of South Carolina Columbia, SC 29208 dudy-
cha [at] biol.sc.edu http://www.biol.sc.edu/ ~dudycha
\dudycha@biol.sc.edu" <dudycha@biol.sc.edu >
Smithsonian VideoContest
Conservation
STUDENT SHORT VIDEO COMPETITION - \CON-
SERVATION SUCCESS" - SMITHSONIAN EARTH
OPTIMISM
Produce a two-minute video on a conserva-
tion/sustainability success story that you have
been involved with or a story that needs to be
highlighted. Visit following link for competition
explanation, rules and submission instructions.
http://chuck.earthoptimism.si.edu/blogs/news/2017/-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 83
02/02/earth-optimism-summit-announces-student-
video-competition/ PRIZE: Multiple winners will
receive travel, lodging and registration to the 3 day
Smithsonian Earth Optimism Summit in Washington
DC on April 21-23. The GRAND PRIZE winner also
receives $1000!
This contest is open to undergraduate and graduate
students. Deadline March 3 11:59 PM EDT.
WHAT IS EARTH OPTIMISM - The global conserva-
tion movement has reached a turning point. There are
a growing number of examples of improvements in the
health of species and ecosystems, along with benets to
human well-being, thanks to our conservation actions.
Earth Optimism is a global initiative that celebrates
focus change from apathy to action, from a sense of loss
to one of hope, in the dialogue about conservation and
sustainability.
The Earth Optimism Summit, April 21-23, 2017, is be-
ing hosted by the Smithsonian Institution in Washington
DC, with partner events around the world. Over 100
speakers and more than 1000 delegates are being invited
to present and discuss - quite simply - what is work-
ing in conservation. Thought leaders, scientists, artists,
environmentalists, civic leaders, and other conservation-
minded citizens will gather to share stories of conserva-
tion success and discuss solutions for addressing climate
change and biodiversity sustainability. The power of
media, including video shorts, is an important part of
this storytelling celebration. Join us!
Earth Optimism Website: earthoptimism.si.edu
Send questions about the video contest to EOSummit-
Contest@si.edu
\CoyleB@si.edu" <CoyleB@si.edu >
SouthAfrica VolResAssist
CooperativeBehaviour
Volunteer Research Assistant position Causes of indi-
vidual variation in cooperative investment in the Dama-
raland Mole-Rat
I am a PhD student at the University of Cambridge
and I'm looking for a volunteer research assistant to
carry out exciting experiments with captive Damaraland
mole-rats, Fukomys damarensis. The study site is at the
Kuruman River Reserve, in the South African Kalahari
Desert.My research, investigates the causes of individual vari-
ation in cooperative behaviour. I am particularly in-
terested in whether and how varied social experiences
throughout life can generate dierences in development
and behavioural prole. Further information about the
experiments will be provided on interview.
I am looking for applicants available for a period of 6
to 12 months starting as soon as possible. Applicants
should be hardworking, enthusiastic, physically t, and
prepared for long hours in the laboratory. Successful
applicants will be responsible to run experiments and
will be involved in data collection and management (be-
havioural observations and collection of blood, and urine
samples). Other general tasks related to animal han-
dling (hormone injections and implants) and husbandry
and data handling will also be expected. Working weeks
will not exceed 45 hours.
This position is particularly suited, but not exclusively,
for people aiming to carry on their academic education
or a management position in a research project. Success-
ful applicants can expect to gain invaluable experience
in animal handling procedures and conducting and man-
aging experiments on a daily basis. They will be trained
to work with the software ObserverXT and Microsoft
Access.
Costs of food and accommodation while at the project
will be covered.
If you are interested in this position send your CV and
cover letter stating your availability to Philippe Vullioud
(philippe.vullioud@gmail.com).
Shortlisted applicants will be invited for a Skype inter-
view.
Deadline: 05/February/2017 (the position will remain
open until lled)
philippe.vullioud@gmail.com
Spain VolResAssist
StarlingPopulations
Volunteer Research Assistant position. Starling camp
Between April and June 2017 we will run our yearly in-
tensive research campaign in our starling colony, 50 kms
from Madrid. Around 250 nest boxes are almost daily
followed through the two sequential broods that most
nests obtain. Field work includes capturing adult birds
for measuring and sampling, follow-up of reproduction84 EvolDir March 1, 2017
(egg laying, hatching and edging), ringing nestlings,
setting-up of microchip readers to assess parental care...,
as well as other activities related to the specic experi-
ments running in each year.
The eld site is a pleasant and undisturbed woodland,
an hour from Madrid. Several researchers, PhDs and
master students take part in the eld work, but to be
able to run it properly, we count with the help of a few
volunteers every year. We provide free accommodation
for volunteers in a nearby eld station, transport to
and from the eld site, and a fantastic team-work at-
mosphere. We are happy to consider volunteers for any
periods of time starting from a minimum of 2 months.
Please contact us asap if interested in taking part in the
2017 campaign, attaching your CV and a short personal
statement of your interests, together with the emails
of two academic or professional references that could
support your application.
Raquel Moncl ~Aos<raquel.monclus@gmail.com >
SSB ErnstMayr Award
The Ernst Mayr Award is given to the presenter of the
outstanding student talk in the eld of systematics at
joint annual conference of the Society of Systematic
Biologists (SSB), the Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion, and the American Society of Naturalists, held
this year in Portland, OR USA June 23-27 (http://-
www.evolutionmeetings.org/).
The Ernst Mayr Award is SSB's premier award, and is
judged by the quality and creativity of the research com-
pleted over the course of the student's Ph.D. program.
The award consists of $1000, a certicate of distinction,
and a two-year subscription to the journal Systematic
Biology.
Members of the Society who are students or have com-
pleted their Ph.D. within the last 15 months are eligible.
Applicants may be from any country, but MUST be
members of SSB, and are advised to join the Society
as soon as possible to be considered. Previous Mayr
Award winners are not eligible.
WEBSITE: http://www.systbio.org/ernst-mayr-
award.html ** HOW TO BE CONSIDERED FOR
THE ERNST MAYR AWARD **
1. You MUST submit an abstract of your talk (lim-
ited to 300 words) to the Evolution Meeting website(http://evolutionmeetings.org) at the time of registra-
tion. Instructions for registering as a potential Mayr
award contender will be given on the meeting website.
2. Abstracts should clearly indicate methods used, con-
clusions, and the relevance to systematics. Presentations
focusing on other areas of biology (ecology, behavior,
genetics, populations or molecular biology, etc.) that
lack a strong systematics emphasis are not eligible.
3. Applications for this award will be accepted only
until the end of early registration (April 15, 2017) or
EARLIER if all of the meeting talk slots ll. So REG-
ISTER EARLY to ensure that you are considered for
the award and are able to present at the meeting.
4. At the closing of early registration, you will be con-
tacted by the SSB Awards Director to conrm your
submission. Then, all abstracts will be sent to a panel
of reviewers. A subset of applicants will be selected to
present their talks in the Mayr symposium during the
meeting. All applicants will be notied about selection
decisions by approximately May 15. Applicants not
selected for an award will be given a regular concurrent
talk in another session at the meeting.
JUDGING { Based on the submitted abstracts, the
Mayr Awards Committee (appointed by the Awards
Chair) will select 10 talks for inclusion in the Mayr
Award symposium. The Mayr symposium will be held
at a single venue as a continuous session. Talks will be
judged on creativity, depth and excellence of research,
and on quality of presentation. Competitive students
are expected to be in the nal stages of their doctoral
program, presenting results of a major body of work.
CO-AUTHORS { The talk may be co-authored. It is
understood that the ideas, data and conclusions pre-
sented are primarily and substantially the work of the
student presenter, and the intention is that the student
presenter will be senior author on the published version
of the paper. If a submission includes multiple authors,
include a brief section below the abstract that outlines
the contribution of each author to the research.
NOTIFICATION OF WINNER { The winner of the
award will be announced at the SSB business meeting
and again during the Super-Social at the conclusion of
the Evolution Meetings, whereupon the winner will be
given an award certicate (the check will be mailed).
An announcement of the winner will also be published
in Systematic Biology and placed on the SSB website.
CONTACT { Please email the SSB Awards Director,
Tracy Heath at ssb.awards.director@gmail.com if you
have any questions.
Tracy Heath SSB-Awards DirectorMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 85
<ssb.awards.director@gmail.com >
SystematicsResearchFund
DeadlineFeb15
The Councils of the Linnean Society (https://-
www.linnean.org/) and the Systematics Association
(http://www.systass.org/) jointly administer the Sys-
tematics Research Fund (SRF) that provides grants
annually for small-scale research projects in the eld of
systematics.
Typical activities supported include contributions to
eldwork expenditure, the purchase of scientic equip-
ment or expertise (e.g. buying time on analytical equip-
ment), specimen preparation (including the cost of tem-
porary technical assistance), and contributions to publi-
cation costs. However, please note that it is unable to
fund the cost of article publication charges. Projects
of a more general or educational nature will also be
considered, provided that they include a strong sys-
tematics component. Typical activities not supported
include attendance at scientic meetings and contribu-
tions to student maintenance or tuition fees. The fund
does not provide payments for Bench Fees. Projects
already substantially funded by other bodies may be
disadvantaged.
Applications of all nationalities are welcome but appli-
cants must be a member of the Systematics Association
or Linnean Society of London.
Successful projects are selected by a panel of systema-
tists who represent a wide range of conceptual interests
and taxonomic groups. Generally, applications in the
range of 500-1,000 are preferred, the value of any single
award will not exceed 1500.
Deadline 15 February 2017
More information on SRF on the Systematics Associa-
tion webpage: http://www.systass.org/awards/srf.shtml
Questions about the application procedure can also be
sent to the SRF Administrator (srf@systass.org)
Dr. Anne D. Jungblut Grants & Awards Secretary for
SRF The Systematics Association
Anne Jungblut <a.jungblut@nhm.ac.uk >T H HuxleyCallForApplications
The SSE Education Committee is pleased to announce
the T. H. Huxley award, named in honor of Darwin's
very public supporter, which recognizes and promotes
the development of high quality evolution education
resources.
If you have an interesting project or educational activity
to share, consider applying for this award. Information
on previous awards is available here: http://bit.ly/-
2kP2pPM. Graduate students and postdoctoral fellows
are encouraged to apply. This award provides fund-
ing for an SSE member to present evolution education
resources at the National Association of Biology Teach-
ers (http://www.nabt.org/ <http://www.nabt.org/-
websites/institution/index.php?p=10 >) annual con-
ference. This year's NABT conference will be held
Nov. 9-12, 2017 in St. Louis, MO. The deadline
for applying for the Huxley award is April 4. Ap-
ply here: https://goo.gl/forms/41J0Zj3IDQI7RJiV2
Questions? Contact Louise Mead (lsmead@msu.edu),
Phil Gibson ( jpgibson@ou.edu), or Kristin Jenkins
(kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org)
{ Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD Director
BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium bioquest.org (608)
622.9394
Kristin Jenkins <kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org >
UMinnesota REU Adaptation
Ruth Shaw's Research Group in the Dept. of Ecology,
Evolution & Behavior at the University of Minnesota
is seeking applicants for an NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) position in summer 2017 to
study the process of ongoing adaptation in experimental
populations of partridge pea (Chamaecrista fasciculata)
in prairie habitat. The student will work closely with
Dr. Ruth Shaw and Dr. Mason Kulbaba to develop
an independent project in the area of plant evolution-
ary genetics, with possibilities ranging from studies of
heritability and phenotypic selection on plant traits to
studies of pollination ecology and phenology. The stu-86 EvolDir March 1, 2017
dent will gain invaluable experience in performing eld
work and in conducting an independent research project,
from hypothesis formulation through oral and written
dissemination of results, as grounding for future work
in inquiry-based scientic research. The student must
be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident and enrolled as
an undergraduate for Fall 2017. The ideal candidate
should enjoy working outdoors and have an interest in
learning about the evolution and ecology of plants in
the Midwest prairies, and candidates planning to pursue
a graduate career in evolution, ecology, or conserva-
tion biology are particularly well-suited for this position.
The REU intern will receive a stipend of $5,000 and
room and board in the Twin Cities (with occasional
overnight travel to eld sites). Costs of travel to and
from the Twin Cities will also be provided. The dead-
line to apply for this position is March 10, 2017, and
the 10-week internship is expected to begin on Monday,
June 5 and end on Friday, August 11. Please contact
Mason Kulbaba (mkulbaba@umn.edu) for more infor-
mation. The University of Minnesota provides equal
access to and opportunity in its programs, facilities,
and employment without regard to race, color, creed,
religion, national origin, gender, age, marital status,
disability, public assistance status, veteran status, sex-
ual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.
Individuals of underrepresented groups are especially
encouraged to apply. Please forward this advertisement
to any interested and qualied undergraduates.
To apply, please e-mail the following application ma-
terials to Mason Kulbaba (mkulbaba@umn.edu) with
the subject line \REU" no later than March 10, 2017:
1. a statement explaining the following: -why you are
interested in this position -what are your future plans
-dates you are available to start and end this position
-conrm eligibility for the REU program -the name and
contact information of the person who will serve as your
reference -your e-mail address and phone number 2. re-
sume 3. transcript (unocial is acceptable) 4. 1 letter
of recommendation (sent by your reference)
mkulbaba@umn.eduUTexas REU SwitchgrassGenetics
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is emerging as an im-
portant biofuel candidate in the United States. Our
labs (see list of collaborators below) collectively study
the ecology, genetics/genomics, physiology and agron-
omy/plant breeding of Switchgrass. We are seeking a
talented and diverse group of undergraduate students
interested in conducting a variety of research in Switch-
grass biology across the US.
Program description: This program is an opportunity
for undergraduate students to participate in mentored
independent research on the biology of Switchgrass. The
program is funded through the NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) program and is associated
with our ongoing interdisciplinary work on the ecology,
physiology, and genomic responses of switchgrass to fu-
ture climate change. Summer students will be immersed
in research and learn basic and applied biology through
active participation in primarily eld-based work. Work-
ing as part of our research team, they will contribute to
group research projects, design short research projects,
and present their work in an end-of-summer student
symposium.
Each position is supported for 8-10 weeks beginning
the rst week of June. Students are awarded a $4500
stipend, plus a housing and food allowance, and some
funds to help defray the cost of traveling to the desig-
nated University.
Who Should Apply: Undergraduates that are not in
their senior year (typically 1st to 3rd year students),
who are either U.S. citizens or permanent residents
studying in the U.S.
Application process: The application deadline is Febru-
ary 19, 2017. Applicants should submit a 1-page cover
letter describing any relevant research experience, along
with their motivation for joining our research group,
and include a copy of their current transcript (unocial
transcript or screenshots are acceptable). Applicants
should also ensure that two letters of recommendation
are submitted on their behalf. Only applications that
are complete will be considered. Applications and re-
quests for further information should be directed to:
Dr. Brandon Campitelli e-mail: bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu Subject: Switchgrass
REU 2017March 1, 2017 EvolDir 87
For more information regarding this opportunity,
and ongoing research, please visit our website:
https://sites.cns.utexas.edu/juenger lab/summer-
research-opportunities Brandon E Campitelli
<brandon.campitelli@utexas.edu >
Wageningen FieldAssist
BirdEvolutionaryDynamics
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANTS - AVIAN ECO-
EVOLUTIONARY DYNAMICS
NETHERLANDS INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY (NIOO)
- Wageningen - The Netherlands DEPARTMENT OF
ANIMAL ECOLOGY - Prof Marcel Visser's group
PLEASE APPLY ONLY IF YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
FOR A MINIMUM OF 2 MONTHS AND DO NOT
REQUIRE A STIPEND.
We are looking for 2 eld assistants for a study on the
eco-evolutionary impacts of articial light at night on
Great tits (Parus major) in the Netherlands.
This is a project funded by a grant of the Dutch Science
Academy NWO to Prof Marcel Visser and Dr Davide
Dominoni to study the long-term eco-evolutionary ef-
fects of light at night on great tits, with a focus ON
aspects such as ageing, senescence and timing of activi-
ties. The project is part of a long-term ecosystem study
called Licht Op Natuur (www.lichtopnatuur.org), which
aims at understanding the ecological impacts of light
pollution and their evolution over time, as well as the
role of dierent light sources and colours in mediating
such impacts for several taxa, from plants to reptiles to
birds and mammals. This research facility consist of 8
dierent sites across the Netherlands where street lamps
with dierent light colours have been installed and kept
constantly on during the night from 2011 until now.
In spring 2017 we will conduct an intermittent light
experiments to manipulate exposure to light at night
and thus distinguish between direct and indirect eects
of light on behavioural and physiological responses of
great tits (mostly chick provisioning behavior). Bird
will be radio-tagged with a novel tracking system that
will allow ne-scale temporal and spatial recording of
movements and activity patterns.
Field research assistants will participate in data col-
lection during approximately a 3-month period, from
start of April to end of June 2017. Assistant duties will
include nest monitoring, focal behavioral observations,radio-tracking, bird capture and processing, ringing, tag-
ging, blood sampling and data entry. Thus, you will
learn a great deal of eld work skills in avian research,
as well as experimental design, data collection and, de-
pending on your motivation and goals, data analysis
and scientic writing. What we could not oer, due to
budget constraints on our grant (we cannot pay to hire
sta), is a stipend. Thus, assistants will need to cover
all their living expenses while in Wageningen. Student
rooms normally range between 200 and 400 euros per
month in a shared at.
University graduates and undergraduates are encour-
aged to apply. Current students are encouraged to apply
for academic credit for their work at their home insti-
tution, as well as to conduct their research thesis (BSc
or MSc) with us. We are fully motivated to support
students that want to pursue a thesis work or simply de-
velop an own project that could lead to the publication
of a scientic paper and reinforce their application to
PhD programs. Assistants will be involved in all aspects
of the project, including discussions of the conceptual
framework of the project. We will assign you a desk
in a students' oce and you will be an integral part of
our department. For those who will conduct their thesis
with us, there is also the possibility to extend your stay
beyond the eld work season, until thesis completion.
Working days are relatively long although normal for
relative eld work standards (6-10 hours in the eld,
usually from 8 am to 6 pm max). The workweek will
typically be 6 days, and free days are rotated among
all team members. The work is not very physically de-
manding, although some walking and biking is required.
For those who will drive (see below), you must expect
between 1 and 2 hours of driving per day.
Qualications:
1) Those with previous eld experience (especially those
who have bird-handling and/or behavioral observation
experience) and a strong interest in bird behavior and
ecology are highly preferred, but such skills are not ab-
solutely necessary. I will personally train the assistants.
2) Applicants with a driving license are highly preferred.
Other important requirements include:
1) Willingness to work long hours in the eld (7-10)
2) Commitment to data entry at the end of each working
day in the eld (this is essential to keep track of the
breeding events and plan day by day work schedule)
3) Ability to work in a team with at least 3-4 other
people
4) Understanding that data collection is shared among
team members, thus if you have your own project88 EvolDir March 1, 2017
you will still be required to collect data for other stu-
dents/postdocs
5) If you have a driving license, you will also be re-
quired to drive approximately 50-100 km per day to
move between eld sites
Application instructions: Deadline: Until the two posi-tions are lled. Please send:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PostDocs
AIMS Queensland EvolutionCoralReefOrganisms . . 89
ArizonaStateU EvolBioinformaticsGenomics . . . . . . . 89
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryBioinformatics . . . . . . . . 90
Barcelona GenomicsMachineLearning . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
BrownU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Budapest EvolutionPhysicsOfCancer 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
CharlesU Prague EvolutionArabidopsis . . . . . . . . . . . .93
CIBIO Portugal ModellingHumanDiseases . . . . . . . . .93
CNRS Montpellier Virus Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
ColumbiaU ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
CWilliamMary ButteryPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
GeorgiaTech ExptEvolutionGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .96
Halifax PDF PhD FishGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
HarvardU MicrobeHostEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
IISER-TVM Kerala India EcologyEvolution . . . . . . . 99
London 2 EvolutionOfInsectCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
London ChromatinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
MaxPlanck GenomicsMigration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
MaxPlanckInst Ploen Adaptation BiologicalClocks 102
NaplesU SelectionInPlants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
OviedoU Spain PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
SanAntonio MalariaEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . 103
SLU Sweden PlantSexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . 104
StanfordU CommunityEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . .105
StellenboschU SouthAfrica AntarcticPlantPhyloge-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105ToulouseCNRS PlantsEvolutionaryEpigenetics . . . 106
TrentU AmphibianAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
TU Dresden EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UArkansas BehavioralGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UBirmingham AdaptiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UCalifornia Berkeley FungalPopGeneticsGenomics 109
UCambridge MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UCopenhagen ComparativeGenomics BirdsInsect .110
UExeter EvolutionInsectP450 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UKentucky InsectEndosymbiontEvolution . . . . . . . . 112
ULausanne GenomicsPlantMicrobeSymbioses . . . . .112
ULeubeck SystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
ULiverpool EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UMarylandBaltimoreCounty EvolutionaryBiology 114
UmeaU 5PDF and 5PhD Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . 115
UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
UOslo PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UppsalaU OralMicrobiomeEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117
UppsalaU OralMicrobiomeEvol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118
UQuebec AT ForestPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 119
USheeld Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .119
UYork UK LepsEvolResponsesToEnvChange . . . . . 120
Vienna ConservationCamels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Vienna StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121March 1, 2017 EvolDir 89
AIMS Queensland
EvolutionCoralReefOrganisms
Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunities at the Australian
Institute of Marine Science - Evolution of Coral Reef
Organisms
Early career researchers are encouraged to apply for
postdoctoral projects in the following areas:
- Genomic basis of environmental stress tolerance and
resilience in corals - Drivers of recovery of coral popula-
tions and reefs after disturbance - Role of evolutionary
rescue on coral reefs under current and future environ-
mental scenarios - Eects of sediments on larval ecology
of corals and sponges
The Australian Institute of Marine Science is Australia's
tropical marine research agency. Since our establishment
in 1972, our research into some of Australia's iconic ma-
rine ecosystems has guided their management and that
of similar systems around the world. We do marine
science that matters, providing world-class, large-scale
and long-term research for governments, industry and
the wider community to make informed decisions about
the Great Barrier Reef, North-West Shelf and Arafura
and Timor Seas. With our own research vessels, the
National Sea Simulator and cutting edge laboratories
at our locations in Townsville, Darwin and Perth, our
researchers have the best tools and equipment to provide
tomorrow's solutions today.
AIMS postdoctoral fellows receive extensive support,
funding and mentoring.
Our sta enjoy competitive employment conditions. You
will join a dynamic intellectual environment where in-
novation, communication and collaboration are in focus.
Full access to AIMS' world- class facilities, coral reefs
on our door-step and strong national and international
collaborative relationships provide a unique opportunity
to conduct pure and applied research that matters.
Interested in joining us?
Find out more at www.aims.gov.au/employment . Dr
Line K Bay Senior Research Scientist and Team Leader
Reef Recovery, Adaptation and Restoration Australian
Institute of Marine Science PMB No. 3, Townsville MC
Queensland 4810, Australia
Phone: +61 07 47534179 Mobile: +61 0429185497
E-mail: l.bay@aims.gov.au Web address:
www.aims.gov.au Line Bay <L.Bay@aims.gov.au >ArizonaStateU
EvolBioinformaticsGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Associates - Ge-
nomics/Bioinformatcs
Two Postdoctoral Research Associate positions are avail-
able at the Biodesign Institute at Arizona State Uni-
versity (ASU). The Postdoctoral Research Associates
will be part of the Cartwright lab (https://cartwrig.ht/)
located in the Biodesign Center for Personalized Diag-
nostics. The lab is focused on evolutionary research
related to mutation and population variation, as well as
developing statistical software to process large, genomic
datasets to identify and study somatic and germline
mutation patterns. Successful candidates will partici-
pate in three federally funded research programs: (1)
analysis of mutation accumulation lines from the ciliate,
Tetrahymena thermophila, (2) development of DeNovo-
Gear, a general toolkit for the study of mutation rates
from next-gen sequencing of related individuals and
cells, and (3) development of phylogenomic methods to
reconstruct phylogenies from whole-genome sequencing.
Corresponding projects in the lab involve the study of
somatic and germline mutations in humans, chimps,
trees, bacteria, bees, mice, and cancer.
In particular, under guidance from Dr. Cartwright, the
candidate is expected to:
* Work both independently and closely with other mem-
bers of the lab * Map and/or assemble next-generation
sequencing data * Adapt existing genomic techniques to
non-model organisms * Develop novel, high-throughput
methodologies to identify de novo mutations by compar-
ing related individuals and somatic samples. * Present
the results of research at meetings, in publications, etc.
Requirements
* PhD in bioinformatics, computational biology, bio-
statistics, genomics, molecular biology or related elds
* Prociency in scientic computing and program-
ming/scripting languages in UNIX platforms (e.g. Bash,
Python, C/C++) * Experience in statistical computing
(e.g. R/Bioconductor and Biopython)
Desired Qualications
* Experience in development/maintenance of scientic
software * Experience in next-generation sequencing
data processing and analysis * Experience in statisti-90 EvolDir March 1, 2017
cal analysis and method development * Experience in
high-performance parallel computing * Experience in
collecting and processing large-scale scientic data
Instructions to Apply
The position will remain open until lled. To apply,
please send cover letter, CV, summary of past work,
and the names and email addresses of three references
to Dr. Cartwright at cartwright@asu.edu. Preference
will be given to candidates who apply by *February 20,
2017*. Please put 'Postdoctoral Research Associate' in
the subject line of your email.
The Cartwright Lab (https://cartwrig.ht/) oers a pro-
ductive environment, in which researchers are given
the freedom to explore new ways of solving scientic
problems. There are opportunities to work with a large
number of collaborators at both ASU and worldwide.
We are located in the Valley of the Sun (Phoenix, AZ,
USA), home to 4.5 million people, and short driving dis-
tances from numerous outdoor activities in the Sonoran
Desert. Biking, hiking, mountain climbing, and bird
watching are all popular activities in the area.
The Biodesign Institute Mission
The Biodesign Institute at ASU addresses today's crit-
ical global challenges in healthcare, sustainability and
security by developing solutions inspired from natural
systems and translating those solutions into commer-
cially viable productss and clinical practices.
Arizona State University is a VEVRAA Federal Con-
tractor and Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Em-
ployer. All qualied applicants will be considered with-
out regard to race, color, sex, religion, national origin,
disability protected veteran status, or any other basis
protected by law.
ASU's full nondiscrimination statement: https://-
www.asu.edu/aad/manuals/acd/acd401.html Title IX
statement: https://www.asu.edu/titleIX/ { Reed A.
Cartwright, PhD Barrett Honors Faculty Assistant
Professor of Genomics, Evolution, and Bioinformat-
ics School of Life Sciences Human and Comparative
Genomics Laboratory The Biodesign Institute Arizona
State University
Availability: http://links.asu.edu/CartwrightCalendar
Address: The Biodesign Institute, PO Box 875301,
Tempe, AZ 85287-5301 USA Packages: The Biode-
sign Institute, 1001 S. McAllister Ave, Tempe, AZ
85287-5301 USA Oce: Biodesign B-220C, 1-480-965-
9949 Website: http://cartwrig.ht/ \rcartwri@asu.edu"
<rcartwri@asu.edu >ArizonaStateU
EvolutionaryBioinformatics
A postdoctoral position is available in Susanne Pfeifer's
group at Arizona State University (ASU).
Research in the lab focuses on analyzing genomic vari-
ation to quantify evolutionary processes, utilizing a
combination of large-scale data analysis and modeling.
Research topics are open to discussion and mutual in-
terest, though specic interests include the study of
mutation and recombination rate variation in primates,
as well as the study of adaptation during rapid environ-
mental change (more detailed information may be found
on the lab website: http://spfeiferlab.org/). Candidates
should have a background in bioinformatics (ideally in-
cluding experience with genomic data analysis), as well
as strong quantitative and programming skills.
Informal inquires as well as applications (including a
short summary of research interests, CV, and contact
information for two references) should be emailed to su-
sanne.pfeifer@asu.edu prior to March, 31st. Start date
is exible.
The lab is located on the main (Tempe) campus of ASU,
beneting from close ties to several labs at the interface
of bioinformatics, evolution, and genetics, including the
Cartwright, Jensen, Stone, and Wilson Sayres groups.
Susanne Pfeifer, tenure-track Assistant Professor, School
of Life Sciences, Arizona State University
spfeife1@asu.edu
Barcelona
GenomicsMachineLearning
We oer a 22 month postdoc to work in the machine
learning area. The prole is ample, from identifying
selective sweeps to genomic selection and individual in-
terests can be discussed. Gross salary is about 30k euro
/ year. The details are below. Interested candidates
please send a letter of motivation letter, CV and emails
of contact persons.
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Centre forMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 91
Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG) and
Facultat de Veterinaria UAB Campus Universitat
Autonoma Barcelona Bellaterra E-08193 Spain
Tel: +34 935636600 ext 3346 Fax: +34 935636601
miguel.perez@uab.es http://www.icrea.cat/Web/-
ScienticSta/Miguel-Perez-Enciso-255 http://-
bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/ Machine
learning tools to combine sequence and biologically
heterogeneous data
Research project
Big data are characterized not only by their size but
also by their heterogeneity and noisiness. These fea-
tures apply in particular to genomic data: their size
has been increasing exponentially with the advent of
new sequencing technologies, but also their complexity.
We aim at combining several available sources of infor-
mation, not only the phenotypes and sequence data,
but also, e.g., annotation features or metabolic path-
ways. An important goal is not only to provide ecient
predictors but also tools to biologically interpret the
results. We will explore machine learning tools such as
ensemble methods or deep learning to investigate two
main problems (i) genomic prediction, and (ii) inference
of selective sweeps.
Job description
We are looking for a PhD with a computational prole
and an interest in biological applications.
Required
- Programming ability and experience in python.
- Quantitative and/or population genetics background
Valued
- Experience in machine learning area
We oer a 22 month year postdoc contract (extendable
up to three years if funding is available).
Group description
The numerical genomics group (http://-
bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/) at
Centre for Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG,
www.cragenomica.es) is primarily interested in the use
of high throughput sequencing technology (NGS) for
population and statistical genomics. Topics of particular
interest are studying the footprint of domestication and
articial selection and the use of sequence for genomic
selection. CRAG was recently awarded a Severo Ochoa
project for excellence centres in Spain.
Group leader
Miguel Perez-Enciso
ICREA professormiguel.perez@uab.es
https://bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/numgenomics/
https://www.icrea.cat/Web/ScienticSta/-
Miguel-Perez-Enciso-255/ Miguel Perez Enciso
<1136012@uab.cat >
BrownU PlantEvolution
The Leslie Lab in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology at Brown University is seeking a post-
doctoral research associate with a background in the
analysis of geospatial species data, species range distri-
butions, and plant trait distributions. Potential projects
will focus on the distribution of reproductive traits in
conifers, particularly seed and seed cone features, and
their relationship to phylogenetic structure and climate
at a global scale. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to integrate large geographic, phylogenetic, and
trait data sets, and a strong background in computa-
tional approaches to analyzing the geographic distribu-
tion of species is preferred.
The Leslie Lab focuses on paleobotany, functional mor-
phology, and patterns of character evolution in plants,
particularly in conifers and other gymnosperms. Recent
work in the lab combines large morphological data sets,
particularly those focused on reproductive traits, with
a comprehensive phylogenetic framework to understand
plant reproductive evolution from a macroevolutionary
and macroecological perspective.
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department at
Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island is a di-
verse community of scholars with broad interests in
evolution and systematics, functional morphology and
biomechanics, and population genetics. To apply, please
send a research statement, a current CV, and contact in-
formation for three references to Andrew Leslie by email
(andrew leslie@brown.edu). The position start date is
exible, and the initial appointment will be for one year
with an opportunity for extension. Applications will
be reviewed starting immediately and accepted until
the position is lled. Brown University is an EEO/AA
employer.
Andrew Leslie <andrew leslie@brown.edu >92 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Budapest EvolutionPhysicsOfCancer
2
A second and nal announcement for a postdoctoral
position to join the recently established Evolutionary
Genomics Research Group funded in 2016 under a highly
competitive 5 year grant from the Hungarian Academy
of Sciences' \Momentum" program as well as an ERC
Starting Grant starting in 2017.
Research Topic:
Cancer is a genetic disease fuelled by somatic evolution.
Despite advances in the molecular biology of cancer
associated genes and the recent surge in the amount
of DNA sequences available for dierent cancers, our
understanding of the evolutionary mechanisms that lead
to cancer is limited and cancer mortality rates have
changed little in the last few decades. Until we unravel
cancer's basic principles, the battle against it can only
progress in inches, rather than in miles.
To address the problems quantitatively, a new eld
called the \physics of cancer" has emerged. In the con-
text of this emerging eld the Evolutionary Genomics
Research Group works to understand the evolutionary
process that leads to the breakdown of the hierarchical
organisation of healthy tissues and the emergence of
tumours, using evolutionary models, computer simu-
lations, and sequence analysis. We do this with the
aim of developing models that can predict how cancers
respond to treatment depending on their functional and
genetic diversity and guide us toward developing novel
treatment strategies and improving existing ones. In our
most recent work (Derenyi & Szollosi 2017) we asked
how tissues generate large numbers of cells while at the
seam time minimising the accumulation of mutations
and the risk of cancer.
To answer the question we introduced a general model of
hierarchically organised self-renewing tissue and derived
the lower limit of lifetime divisional load of a tissue.
We showed that hierarchically dierentiating tissues can
approach this limit, and that this depends on uneven
divisional rates across the hierarchy. We are looking for
a postdoctoral researcher to build on these results and
work with us in exploring the evolutionary process that
lead to breakdown of hierarchical organisation of healthy
tissues. The questions that we want to answer include:
Under what conditions do hierarchically dierentiated
tumours, i.e. \cancer stem cells", evolve? Which kindof mutation lead to cancer and in what combination, e.g.
do mutations that increase symmetric vs. asymmetric
cell division rate drive tumour progression or vice versa?
Derenyi, I & Szollosi, GJ Hierarchical tissue organiza-
tion as a general mechanism to limit the accumulation
of somatic mutations. Nature Communications, in press
(2017) https://doi.org/10.1101/098129 Position Details:
The successful candidate will either have a PhD in Evo-
lutionary or Computational Biology or come from a
strong quantitative background such as Physics, Ap-
plied Mathematics or Statistics with the ambition to
pursue research in Evolutionary Biology.
The position is for up to 2 years with the possibility of
extension and a salary of up to 2,000 EUR per month
conditional on experience (adjusting for cost of living
this corresponds to approx. EUR 3,000 in Berlin, 3,300
in Vienna and 4,200 in Paris [numbeo.com] ).
The research group is lead by Dr. Gergely Szol-
losi ( https://scholar.google.hu/citations?user=sPrYT-
oAAAAJ ) and Prof. Imre Derenyi ( https://-
scholar.google.hu/citations?user=kDEAL-wAAAAJ ).
The research group is hosted at Eotvos University's In-
stitute of Physics. The Institute of Physics has been
included in the Excellence Group of European Universi-
ties, and has achieved top placement in the number of
citations, the number of ERC grants, the time available
for PhD research and the gender balance of masters
students in the CHE Excellence Ranking. The research
group is associated to the Depts. of Biological Physics
and Complex Systems composed of several interdisci-
plinary research groups including those of Prof. Imre
Derenyi, Prof. Tamas Vicsek, and Prof. Istvan Csabai.
Please direct all enquiries to Dr. Gergely Szollosi
(ssolo@elte.hu). First round of applications closes March
1st 2017. Please include a CV with list of publications
referencing a google scholar prole and a motivation
letter addressing the research topic described above.
Dr. Gergely J Sz oll ~Asi
MTA-ELTE ,,Lend ulet\ Evolutionary Genomics Re-
search Group ERC "GENECLOCKS\ Research Group
head researcher http://ssolo.web.elte.hu Tel: 00 36 30
725 35 32
Gergely J Sz oll ~Asi<sszolo@gmail.com >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 93
CharlesU Prague
EvolutionArabidopsis
*Postdoctoral Position in Ecological Genomics of Alpine
Arabidopsis*
*Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles
University in Prague, Czech Republic*
We are seeking a highly-motivated early-career re-
searcher with good ecological and/or population ge-
nomic background to join a project focused on parallel
adaptation of wild *Arabidopsis *populations towards
high-alpine environments in European mountains. Using
combination of genome resequencing, eld experiments
and phenotyping (incl. morphometrics, ecophysiology,
metabolomics and RNAseq) we aim to reconstruct evo-
lutionary triggers which lead to repeated formation of
a distinct high alpine phenotype in two *Arabidopsis*
species (see the Fig.). The selected candidate will be
based in Prague with other members of the core team;
the work in this project also involves eldwork in the
Alps and collaboration with other teams in Austria and
the UK.
The main focus of the work will be
§coordination of a reciprocal transplant experiment in
the Austrian Alps (since summer 2017)
§phenotyping of the plants (multivariate morphometrics,
life-history trait screening)
§analyses of transcriptomic (RNAseq) proles of the
experimental plants
We oer
§work in an inspiring student-dominated environment
of the new team of ecological genomics
§competitive salary for 2,5 years ( ~33,000 CZK monthly,
i.e. 25% above the average Czech salary)
§possibility to (co-)supervise a Master or a PhD student
§a technician support for the wet lab work
§additional experience through an international collabo-
ration with our partners at the University of Innsbruck,
Austria (ecophysiology, metabolomics) and the John
Innes Centre, UK (transcriptomics)
§work in the historical centre of the UNESCO heritage
site of Prague cityWe require
§strong motivation for an interdisciplinary research in
border of ecology and genomics
§independence in running ecological experiments
§experience with eldwork, optimally in alpine environ-
ment
Desirable but not required
§experience in statistical analysis of ecological data
§background in analysis of high-throughput sequencing
data, optimally RNAseq
Please, send your CV, contact of the two referees and
a short motivation letter to the project leader, Filip
Kol a (lip.kolar@gmail.com). Review of applications
will begin on *March 15th 2017* and will continue until
the position has been lled. The position is available
from *May 2017*.
{ Filip Kol a Department of Botany Faculty of Science,
Charles University Benatska 2, Prague CZ - 128 01
Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences Zamek 1,
Pruhonice CZ - 252 43 Czech Republic
Filip Kolar <lip.kolar@gmail.com >
CIBIO Portugal
ModellingHumanDiseases
Postdoctoral Fellowship
Reference: ICETA 2017-04
Link to the call http://www.eracareers.pt/-
opportunities/index.aspx?task=global&jobId=886
15
Research eld: Mathematical and statistical epidemiol-
ogy
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Fellowship
(Reference ICETA 2017-04) in the context of the project
\Modelling and inference for population and ecosys-
tem health" (IF/01346/2014), funded by FCT/MCTES
(PIDDAC) and co-funded by FEDER through COM-
PETE (POFC), in ICETA:
Eligibility:
Candidates must hold PhD or equivalent qualication
and research experience in mathematical or statistical
modelling of natural systems.94 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Work plan:
Develop novel mathematical models for tuberculosis
transmission. Shortening the gap between statistical
epidemiology and mathematical epidemiology, the new
models will accommodate inter-individual heterogene-
ity (observed and unobserved) and cohort selection for
improved accuracy and predictability. These models
will be informed by surveillance data and tested against
monitored clinical trials and interventions. The post will
involve developing innovative ways to analyse data and
parameterize models, working closely with clinicians,
and attending meetings to discuss research ndings.
Legislation and regulations:
A fellowship contract will be celebrated according to the
regulations dened by FCT \Regulations for Advanced
Training and Qualication of Human Resources", in ac-
cordance with Law 40/2004, of 18 August, as amended
and republished by Decree-Law No. 202/2012 of 27
August, and as amended by Decree-Law No. 233/2012
of 29 October and by Law No. 12/2013, of 29 January,
and Decree-Law No. 89/2013 of 9 July, to Fellowships
Regulation of FCT (www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/docs/-
RegulamentoBolsasFCT2015.pdf), and to Fellowships
Regulation of ICETA approved by FCT.
Work place:
The candidate will be aliated to CIBIO-InBIO (Centro
de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e Recursos Geneticos)
do ICETA (Instituto de Ciencias, Tecnologias e Agro-
Ambiente), and will spend periods at the Liverpool
School of Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom, under
joint supervision of Profs Gabriela Gomes, Rita Gaio
and Raquel Duarte. There will be opportunity for inter-
action with the world renowned Liverpool Tuberculosis
research community (LIV-TB), and collaboration with
the World Health Organization (WHO).
Duration of fellowship:
The fellowship will have the duration of 6 months, start-
ing on April 01, 2017.
Monthly stipend:
The fellowship stipend will be euro1.495/month, ac-
cording to the regulations of the FCT Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in Portugal (http://alfa.fct.mctes.pt/apoios/-
bolsas/valores), the payment will be do monthly by bank
transfer.
Selection procedures:
Applications will be evaluated based on Curriculum Vi-
tae (50%), motivation letter (30%) and references (20%).
Selected candidates may be invited for an interview be-
fore nal decisions are made.Selection Jury: Prof. Gabriela Gomes (Chair) Prof.
Rita Gaio Prof. Raquel Duarte Prof. Gertrude Thomp-
son
Notication of results:
The results of this call will be made public in CIBIO-
InBIO installations, and all candidates will be notied
by email.
Application period and documents:
The call will be open from 16/02/2017 to 02/03/2017.
Applications must include Curriculum Vitae (CV),
motivation letter, copy of academic certicates and
contact details of two references, sent to: bol-
sas.cibio@cibio.up.pt
CIBIO - Centro de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e
Recursos Geneticos/ InBIO Laboratorio Associado, Uni-
versidade do Porto
Campus Agrario de Vairao
Rua Padre Armando Quintas
4485-661 Vairao
Portugal
t: +351 252 660 411 Ext. 285
f: +351 252 661 780
e: divulgacao@cibio.up.pt
w: http://cibio.up.pt jhttp://inbio.pt
f: https://www.facebook.com/cibio.inbio CIBIO-InBIO
Divulga cao
CNRS Montpellier Virus Evolution
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
Virus Evolution / Codon Usage Bias / Cellular and
Molecular Biology
A post doc position is available in Ignacio Bravo's group
at the MIVEGEC (http://www.mivegec.ird.fr/en/) in
Montpellier, France. The position starts from June (ne-
gotiable), associated with the ERC Consolidator Grant
project CODOVIREVOL.
The objective of the project is to study the evolution-
ary mechanisms that generate phenotypic diversity in
viruses causing chronic infections. The main focus is on
codon usage bias, for which the tness eects will be ad-
dressed at the molecular and cellular level, as well as inMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 95
an animal model. We will apply gene design, gene resur-
rection and experimental evolution to analyze genotypic
changes by means of NGS and will monitor phenotypic
changes through real-time cell monitoring techniques,
comparative proteomics, and anatomopathological anal-
ysis of virus-induced lesions. The study model will be
papillomaviruses, small dsDNA viruses. The results will
have implications for the development of mathematical
models of virus-host interactions and for the design of
therapeutic vaccines to guide the immune response.
SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES - Experimental design and
data analysis: strong background in evolutionary biology
and experience in statistics and data analysis and inter-
pretation. Current use of R and knowledge of a scripting
language. - Cell biology: working in a BSL2 laboratory,
maintenance of cultured cell lines, transfection with vi-
ral genes or oncogenes, real-time readings of cell growth
(xCelligence), and analysis / interpretation of the re-
sults. - Protein biochemistry: preparation of protein
extracts, western- blotting, immunoprecipitation, prepa-
ration for proteomic analysis, and interpretation of the
results. - Molecular biology: design and realization of
genetic constructs, transformation and maintenance of
bacterial cultures, Sanger sequencing and NGS prepa-
ration, analysis/interpretation of the results. - Animal
experimentation: experimental infection with viral DNA
in rabbits, animal monitoring, blood sampling, taking
biopsies, and tissue preparation for histopathology. -
Technical training and supervision of students and post-
doctoral fellows.
The list of activities is long and corresponds to almost all
the activities that will be developed during the project.
It is therefore unlikely, that the candidate will master
all the techniques listed. Working in this project will
involve learning new techniques and acquiring new skills.
For this reason, initiative and autonomy will be essential,
and candidates with a genuine interest in the project
question are encouraged to apply.
THE CONTEXT The project will be developed
in the research group led by Ignacio G. Bravo
(https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Ignacio Bravo2/-
publications), within the Health Ecology and
Evolution Laboratory at the MIVEGEC (http://-
www.mivegec.ird.fr/en/) in Montpellier, France. The
MIVEGEC is a joint unit by the French National
Centre for Scientic Research (CNRS), the Institute for
Research and Development (IRD) and the Montpellier
University. The host institution oers a vibrant scien-
tic environment on the interface between evolutionary
biology and infectious diseases. The evolutionary
biology community in Montpellier is among the largest
and richest ones in Europe.THE POSITION Recruitment is initially for a period of
24 months, with the possibility of renewal for the dura-
tion of the project (until December 2020). The position
will be available from June 2017. Remuneration will
be xed according to the CNRS salary scales (starting
around 2,100 euro )
Please send a CV and a cover letter, as well as the
details of two contacts for recommendation to Ignacio
Bravo (ignacio.bravo@ird.fr), before 24 March 2017.
Ignacio G. Bravo
Directeur de Recherche CNRS
Health, Ecology and Evolution Laboratory MIVEGEC
UMR CNRS 5290, IRD 224, UM Montpellier, France
+33 467 41 5123 ignacio dot bravo ffatggird dot fr
research (as seen in PubMed): http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?cmd=-
3Dsearch&db=3Dpubmed&term=3Dbravo-
ig%5Bau%5D web MIVEGEC http://-
www.mivegec.ird.fr/fr/ ORCID iD: orcid.org/0000-
0003-3389-3389
\None but those who have experienced them can conceive
the enticements of science" Frankenstein, Mary Shelley.
\ignacio.bravo@ird.fr" <ignacio.bravo@ird.fr >
ColumbiaU ViralEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Scientist in viral evolution, ge-
nomics, and mathematical modeling, Columbia Univer-
sity Medical Center
The Rabadan Lab (https://-
rabadan.c2b2.columbia.edu/) is a multi-disciplinary
team at the Columbia University Medical Center
consisting of computational and evolutionary biologists,
applied mathematicians, physicists, and physicians.
As part of the Departments of Systems Biology and
Biomedical Informatics, we collaborate with clinicians
and public health researchers from around the world to
explore the genetic underpinnings and epidemiology of
infectious diseases and cancer. As part of the Center
for Topology of Cancer Evolution and Heterogeneity,
we are building a vibrant community of researchers
who use insights and techniques from computational
topology to solve pressing biomedical problems.
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher who wants to
work in a creative and collaborative environment on96 EvolDir March 1, 2017
new mathematical approaches for understanding viral
evolution.
Candidate qualications include:
- PhD in any quantitative science (preferably mathe-
matics, computer science, physics, astrophysics, com-
putational biology, statistics, or engineering) or in life
sciences with strong focus on mathematical modeling,
evolution, and/or computation - Expertise in high-
throughput sequencing technologies is highly valued.
- Excellent organizational and communication skills are
a must.
Application Process:
Please send the following to st3090@cumc.columbia.edu
1. Cover letter, highlighting experience with quanti-
tative methods for understanding biological data and
evolutionary processes 2. CV 3. Names and contact
information for three references
Columbia University is an armative action/equal op-
portunity employer and encourages applications from
women and underrepresented minorities.
Sophie Thuault-Restituito, PhD Executive Director and
Scientic Operation Manager,
Columbia University Center for Topology of Cancer
Evolution and Heterogeneity Department of Biomedical
Informatics 1130 St. Nicholas Ave ICRC Bldg 8th Floor
New York, NY 10032 Tel: 646 341 2019
\Thuault-Restituito, Sophie"
<st3090@cumc.columbia.edu >
CWilliamMary
ButteryPopGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellow: Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral
Fellow @ The College of William and Mary
The Environmental Science and Policy program at the
College of William & Mary seeks applications for a
two-year postdoctoral scholar position in Environmental
Science sponsored by the Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion.
The postdoctoral scholar will research the decline of the
monarch buttery and the common milkweed plant us-
ing an interdisciplinary approach with techniques includ-
ing population genetics, chemical ecology, GIS, and anal-
ysis of historical collections. The postdoctoral scholar
will teach one upper-level primary literature focusedseminar course per academic year and arrange an envi-
ronmental speaker series in the second year. A PhD in
Biology or a closely related discipline is required by the
time of appointment, August 10, 2017.
The position oers a competitive salary ( $45,000), re-
search and travel funds ( $5000/year), and administrative
support. The postdoctoral fellow will be mentored by
two William & Mary faculty members with research
interests in plant ecology and population genetics.
Review of applications begins April 1st, 2017 and will
continue until an appointment is made. Start date is Au-
gust 10th, 2017. To apply, please submit online a letter
of application and a curriculum vitae as a single PDF
document as well as the names and email address of
three references at http://jobs.wm.edu. (Job # F0004L)
The College of William and Mary values diversity and
invites applications from underrepresented groups who
will enrich the research, teaching, and service missions
of the university. The College is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer and conducts back-
ground checks on applicants for employment.
If you have questions please email:
Joshua Puzey, Assistant Professor of Biology, jr-
puzey@wm.edu http://puzeylab.weebly.com Harmony
Dalgleish, Assistant Professor of Biology, hjdal-
gleish@wm.edu http://wmpeople.wm.edu/site/page/-
hjdalgleish/home Joshua Puzey <jrpuzey@gmail.com >
GeorgiaTech ExptEvolutionGenetics
Postdoctoral associate- experimental evolution / micro-
bial genetics / quantitative biology The Ratcli lab at
Georgia Tech (http://ratcliab.biology.gatech.edu/) is
seeking to hire a postdoctoral associate to work on the
evolution of multicellularity.
The successful candidate will work as part of an inter-
disciplinary team to examine the evolutionary dynamics
of adaptation in the 'snowake yeast' model system.
Specically, we are interested in understanding how
multicellular adaptation occurs prior to the origin of
genetically-regulated development. The successful can-
didate will work closely with physicist Peter Yunker
(https://yunkerlab.gatech.edu/) and mathematical bi-
ologist Eric Libby (http://ericlibby.github.io/) as we
integrate synthetic biology and experimental evolution
with mathematical and computational models.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 97
This position will be renewed annually for three years.
Salary is commensurate with experience. The successful
candidate will ideally start in the spring or early summer
of 2017.
Under guidance from Dr. Ratcli, the candidate will
be expected to: - Identify mutations in experimentally-
evolved snowake yeast using next gen sequencing and
bioinformatic analysis (e.g., snp calling, bulked segre-
gant analysis, etc.).
- Examine the function of these mutations by: i) Creat-
ing dened yeast strains via transformation.
ii) Examining multicellular phenotype and cellular be-
havior using confocal and high-throughput uorescence
microscopy and ow cytometry.
iii) Identifying the tness consequences of key mutations.
- Use these experiments to help rene and parameter-
ize physical models describing the growth of snowake
yeast (led by Dr. Yunker) and models examining their
evolution (led by Dr. Libby).
- Disseminate this research by taking the lead on writing
papers, giving talks at national and international meet-
ings, and participating in scientic outreach projects.
Requirements - A PhD in evolutionary biology, molecu-
lar biology, genomics, biophysics, or related elds.
- Prociency with scientic programming (preferably
using Python or R) for both large-scale data analysis
(e.g., bioinformatics) and constructing analysis pipelines
(e.g., for large microscopy datasets).
- A record of scientic creativity and strong capacity for
independent thought.
Desired qualications - Experience with yeast transfor-
mation and molecular biology.
- Experience with bioinformatic analysis of next genera-
tion sequencing data.
- Familiarity with mathematical or computational mod-
eling approaches would be helpful for collaboration, but
it will not be a major responsibility of this position.
- Ability to make clear, elegant gures for papers and
talks.
- Enthusiasm! We're a pretty excited bunch- science is
more fun when you're really into it.
The position will remain open until lled. Applications
will be considered as they arrive, so please don't hesitate
to contact Dr.
Ratcli if you are interested. To apply, please send
you cover letter, CV, a brief summary of past work (or
link to a description on your website), and the namesand email addresses of two to three references to Dr.
Ratcli at ratcli@gatech.edu. Please include 'Postdoc
application' in the subject line of your email.
Georgia Tech (in Atlanta, GA) is experiencing a re-
naissance in evolutionary microbiology. The successful
candidate will be in a highly collaborative environ-
ment, with the opportunity for extensive interactions
among faculty studying microbial evolution, including
Sam Brown (http://biosci.gatech.edu/people/sam-
brown), Frank Rosenzweig (http://biosci.gatech.edu/-
people/frank-rosenzweig), Brian Hammer (http://-
www.hammerlab.biology.gatech.edu/), Joshua Weitz
(http://ecotheory.biology.gatech.edu/), Peter Yunker
(https://yunkerlab.gatech.edu/), Steve Diggle (http://-
www.stevediggle.net/who-are-we.html), Eric Gaucher
(http://www.gauchergroup.biology.gatech.edu/), Frank
Stewart (http://marine-micro.biology.gatech.edu/),
Matthew Herron (http://matthewherron.net) and
others. Atlanta itself is a good place to live - Midtown,
Georgia Tech's neighborhood, was recently named one
of the 5 best neighborhoods in the country by the APA -
with lots of things to do and a reasonable cost of living.
William Ratcli Assistant Professor, Biological Sciences
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Halifax PDF PhD FishGenomics
NEW POSITIONS - Graduate Student and Postdoc-
toral Fellow Positions with Fisheries and Oceans Canada
on sheries genomics, Halifax NS Canada.
Positions: Graduate student positions and several post-
doctoral fellow positions are available at Dalhousie Uni-
versity and Fisheries and Oceans Canada (Halifax, NS)
working on the ecology, evolution, and conservation ge-
nomics of shes and invertebrates. Species of primary
interest are Atlantic salmon and Atlantic cod, but cur-
rent projects include other anadromous sh and species
of marine invertebrates as well. The lab's research is
broadly concerned the application of genomic tools to in-
form marine management and conservation. See http://-
www.bradburygeneticslab.com The specic projects will
involve using next generation sequencing approaches to
resolve signatures of adaptation across genomes and pop-98 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ulations and the use of molecular tools in mixture anal-
ysis and individual assignment. Themes include shery
composition and migration patterns, adaptation to cli-
mate, invasive species, and the impact of escaped farmed
salmon on natural populations. These multidisciplinary
projects represent training in state of the art genomic
tools and techniques while experiencing both university
and government laboratory environments. Graduate
students will have access to technical support both in
the eld and laboratory through DFO sta and exper-
tise and be part of the Marine Gene Probe Laboratory
(Dal).
Qualications: Honours degree or equivalent in biology
(for a MSc position) and a MSc or equivalent (for a
PhD position), and strong interests in evolutionary ecol-
ogy, molecular ecology, and conservation biology. PDF
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in sheries science, pop-
ulation genetics, genomics, oceanography or a related
eld.
Application: Please email (ibradbur@me.com) (1) a let-
ter describing your interests in this position and your
previous research experience, (2) a recent CV. Review
of applications will continue throughout 2017.
Ian Bradbury <ibradbur@me.com >
HarvardU MicrobeHostEvolution
Postdoctoral position in experimental evolution of host-
microbiome associations
Job description: We seek and outstanding individual
for a postdoctoral associate position to contribute to an
ongoing project at the Rowland Institute at Harvard
University in the laboratory of Robert Brucker. We are
looking for candidates that are excellent experimentalist
with a strong background in microbiology to investigate
the mechanisms of host-microbiome interactions. Using
an insect model system Nasonia, we are experimentally
evolving populations of host animals exposed to xenobi-
otic toxins as environmental stressors. We are observing
host and microbiome adaptation as new phenotypes
emerge. Experience analyzing large datasets with many
variables- whole genome sequencing, transcriptomes,
and metabolomics is preferred. Prospective applicants
should have made signicant contributions to their area
of study, as evidenced by a strong publication record.
We are seeking creative and highly motivated individu-
als who want to work in a dynamic, multi-disciplinary
research environment.We look for candidates with strong quantitative skills,
proven time and project-management skills, ability to
work in a small team environment and excellent writing
and oral communication skills.
The position is for an annual renewal for 2 years.
Salary is commensurate with experience. The posi-
tion start date is in June of 2017. For questions
about this position, please contact Robert Brucker at
brucker@rowland.harvard.edu
Harvard University is an equal opportunity employer
and all qualied applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
disability status, protected veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by law.
Required qualication: Ph.D. or equivalent by the time
of job start in biology, microbiology, ecology and evolu-
tion, statistics, or another appropriate eld. Excellent
experimental and organization skills.
Preferred qualications:
- Experience in designing and executing experiments
involving metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and/or
metabolomic proling
- Experience with microbiome data analysis, elucidat-
ing host- microbiome interactions, and/or functional
prediction of microbial systems using pathway analysis
- Fluency in standard bioinformatics tools, Python, Perl,
and R
- Demonstrated ability to analyze high-dimensional bio-
logical datasets
- Excellent creativity, decision making, and troubleshoot-
ing skills
- Strong written and oral communication skills, as
demonstrated through publications and presentations
- Experience with experimental evolution, disease ecol-
ogy, ecological modeling or advanced statistics
- Evidence of intellectual leadership
To apply: email a CV, research statement
cover letter and three letters of reference to
brucker@rowland.harvard.edu Letters of reference
can be uploaded directly by letter writers following
instructions on the web page. Incomplete applications
will not be considered.
Applications will be considered until the position is
lled.
Robert Brucker <brucker@rowland.harvard.edu >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 99
IISER-TVM Kerala India
EcologyEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available under ICREEE
(www.vanasiri.in/eco-evo; IISER-TVM Centre for
Research and Education in Ecology and Evolu-
tion). ICREEE consists of the research groups
of Ullasa Kodandaramaiah (www.vanasiri.in) and
Hema Somanathan (www.iisertvm.ac.in/faculties/-
hsomanathan/research areas). We invite applications
for a postdoc with one of us, preferably on one of the
research themes mentioned below, but applicants are
also free to propose projects in other research areas
within ecology and evolution.
Ullasa Kodandaramaiah:
Prey-predator interactions Life-history trait evolution
Insect-plant coevolution Phenotypic plasticity
Hema Somanathan:
Plant-pollinator interactions Insect navigation Dispersal
ecology
The postdoc will have the exibility to design projects
in discussion with Hema or Ullasa, and can involve
undergraduate students & interns. The IISER-TVM
Vithura campus is an excellent place for many kinds
of studies in ecology and evolution. If interested in
the position, please get in touch with one of us (ul-
lasa@iisertvm.ac.in, hsomanathan@iisertvm.ac.in) for
discussions before sending in your formal application.
There are of course several ongoing projects in both labs
that a postdoc can be part of, but selection is based
partly on the ability of the candidate to come up with
good research questions.
DEADLINE: 15 March 2017
SALARY: Rs. 43,200 (Rs 36,000 + 20% Housing Rent
Allowance)
DURATION: 1.5 years
SELECTION: The formal advertisement with de-
tails of how to apply are at http://iisertvm.ac.in/-
openings/read opening/191 LIFE IN KERALA AND
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM (TRIVANDRUM): The
picturesque campus is in Vithura (http://vanasiri.in/-
eco-evo/#facilities), which is 40 km from the coastal
city of Thiruvananthapuram. Some people prefer to
live near the campus, but many commute from the city.Thiruvananthapuram is the capital of Kerala, and has
a rich cultural heritage. It is within a stone's throw
away from world-famous beaches such as Kovalam and
Varkala, and lovely backwater tourism areas such as
Poovar. Several hill stations (e.g Ponmudi) and wildlife
sanctuaries are close by. Being a major medical tourism
destination, the city has excellent medical care facilities.
The quality of school education is good and the medium
of instruction is English, which is widely spoken in the
state.
It is a relatively small city, and the cost of living tends
to be considerably lower than in bigger Indian cities.
A 2-bedroom apartment can be rented for Rs 8,000 -
10,000 per month. There are plenty of options for din-
ing out - a meal at a decent local restaurant can start
from Rs 50, but a good meal with a drink even in a
ve-star hotel need not cost more than Rs 1000. Costs
for groceries and other daily needs can be looked up
here (www.kada.in). Taxis can be hired from Rs 10 per
km (with a minimum fare of Rs 50).
\ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in" <ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in >
London 2
EvolutionOfInsectCognition
2 Postdoctoral Research Assistants (3 year posts) School
of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway University of Lon-
don Location: Egham Salary: pounds 34,137 to pounds
40,317 per annum - including London Allowance Closing
Date: Wednesday 15 March 2017 Interview Date: To
be conrmed
Applications are invited for two Postdoctoral Research
Assistant posts in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences at Royal Holloway University of London, to join
the research group of Dr. Elli Leadbeater (http://-
ellileadbeater.wixsite.com/insectcognition)
Position 1: Social network approaches to understanding
honeybee behaviour and communication. Job reference:
0217-040
This is a full time, xed-contract post, available for 3
years. The start date is exible but must be before 15th
May 2017, to coincide with our summer eld season.
Honeybee colonies are microcosms of information ow,
within which bees communicate with nestmates through
a variety of signals and cues. We are interested in how
these information-sharing systems interact, and how
each contributes to colony tness. The successful can-100 EvolDir March 1, 2017
didate will join a team of researchers working on an
ERC-funded research project that focuses on the evo-
lution of communication in honeybees, and will lead
the social network-based axis of the project.You will be
responsible for developing and piloting means to track
social interactions in our honeybee observation hives,
for designing experiments and building social networks,
and for applying Network-Based Diusion Analysis to
identify information ow mechanisms. During the sum-
mer months, you will perform behavioural experiments
on campus at RHUL, and during the winter you will be
responsible for data analysis and manuscript prepara-
tion. You will work closely with other members of the
research team, including our postdoctoral researchers,
technicians and beekeeper, and external project partner
Dr. Will Hoppitt (University of Leeds). All experi-
mental work will be based at Royal Holloway, but the
post holder will be expected to travel to other locations
within the UK to undertake training as necessary.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in Biology (it is
acceptable to be in the nal phase of a PhD programme),
with a strong publication record in peer-reviewed jour-
nals, and proven research expertise in Animal Behaviour.
Experience of building and analysing social networks is
essential, and experience of behavioural research involv-
ing live animals (especially insects) is highly desirable.
The post holder is expected to be highly competent with
R, and experience of using Matlab would also be an
advantage. Most importantly, we are seeking an indi-
vidual who has the drive to learn new techniques, the
independence to take responsibility for one of the most
important axes of our ERC-funded project, and the
commitment to develop the project to its full potential.
Position 2: Linking learning and cognition to tness in
an insect model system. Job reference: 0217-040A
This is a full time, xed-contract post, available for 3
years from 1st August 2017.
The evolution of animal cognition is a major theme
within our research group, and the successful candidate
will work on a Leverhulme Trust funded project that
focuses on the tness consequences of cognitive abilities
in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris. The project will
involve large-scale behavioural experiments in the lab-
oratory, and subsequent assays of tness-determining
traits in the eld (on campus). This project is an oppor-
tunity to compare the contribution of dierent cognitive
traits to survival and tness under dierent ecological
circumstances, using a unique study system that can be
tested in the laboratory but simultaneously allowed to
forage naturally in the wild.
You will be responsible for the design, set-up and im-
plementation of behavioural experiments with live beesin our bumblebee research lab, in addition to data anal-
ysis, presentation and preparation for publication. You
will work alongside the project's associated PhD stu-
dent, and will collaborate closely with other members
of the research team, including postdoctoral researchers,
technicians, postgraduate students and undergraduates.
You will also be heavily involved in the piloting of exper-
imental techniques.All experimental work will be based
at Royal Holloway and in the surrounding woodland
and parkland.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in Biology
(it is acceptable to be in the nal phase of a PhD pro-
gramme). A strong publication record in peer-reviewed
journals is essential, and experience of presenting at
international conferences is highly desirable. You will
have extensive experience of lab or eld-based research
in the eld of animal behaviour, and be able to demon-
strate a good understanding of statistical approaches to
data analysis in behavioural research. We are
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
London ChromatinEvolution
We are looking for a creative postdoctoral scientist
to join a diverse computational/experimental research
team that works at the intersection of molecular evolu-
tion, systems biology, and (more often than not) epige-
netics; headed by Dr Tobias Warnecke.
Recent questions we have tackled include:
- Can RNA chaperones buer deleterious mutations
(Rudan et al. 2015 eLife 4:e04745) and how does buer-
ing by chaperones aect the evolution and evolvability
of their substrates?
- How does chromatin architecture aect DNA sequence
evolution?
- Do dierent epigenetic marks all come with their own
unique mutational burden? (Supek et al. 2014 PLoS
Genet 10:e1004585)
- What is the dierence between prokaryotic and eu-
karyotic chromatin and how did complex epigenetic
regulation evolve?March 1, 2017 EvolDir 101
You will aim to make a major contribution to our
on-going research program, generating and/or ana-
lyzing protein-DNA interaction data from a number
of non-model prokaryotes, understanding condition-
dependent expression of chromatin proteins and their
post-translational modication, with an emphasis on
archaeal chromatin. In addition, you will develop and
carry out your own line of research within the group's
areas of interest and expertise
Candidates keen to mix wet (E. coli, archaea) and dry
lab work are particularly encouraged to apply. You must
have a PhD (or equivalent), a strong publication record,
excellent communication skills, and a track record of
addressing scientic problems in an innovative, thought-
ful and systematic manner. Candidates with a mainly
computational background should be procient in at
least one programming/scripting language (java, python,
etc.) as well as R/matlab and, ideally, have experience
in analysing data from high-throughput sequencing ex-
periments (e.g. Chip-Seq, RNA-Seq). Candidates with
an experimental background should have substantive
experience in molecular techniques for the genetic ma-
nipulation of prokaryotes. Whatever your background,
a keen interest in evolutionary processes is a must.
It's a fully funded 3-year postdoc position at the MRC
London Institute of Medical Sciences/Imperial College
London, with plenty of core support and a strong re-
search environment, particularly when it comes to epi-
genetics.
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AXB023/postdoctoral-
research-scientist/ If you want to know more, please
contact me via email for an informal discussion about
the post.
Thanks and all the best,
Toby
Tobias Warnecke Group Leader Molecular Systems
Group MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences (LMS)
& Imperial College London http://molsys.csc.mrc.ac.uk
MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences (LMS) is
the new name of the MRC Clinical Sciences Centre
\Warnecke, Tobias" <tobias.warnecke@lms.mrc.ac.uk >MaxPlanck GenomicsMigration
** Postdoctoral Position - Genomics of Migration **
The Max Planck Research Group Behavioural Genomics
combines several biological disciplines including evolu-
tionary genomics, bioinformatics, molecular biology, be-
havioural experiments and eldwork, and utilises emer-
gent technologies to identify the genetic basis of migra-
tory traits.
Here we focus on identifying the genes and signaling
pathways behind the components shaping the migratory
phenotype in the blackcap, a well characterised migra-
tory songbird species. We complement the sequencing
approach with gene expression proling and charac-
terisation of chromatin modication to investigate the
extent of phenotypic variation manifested by expression
dierences, either through slight genetic dierences or
epigenetic processes.
Our core project aims to understand: Which genes
harbour coding variation with relevant consequences
for migratory traits, and which signalling cascades are
involved in shaping the migratory phenotype?
The ideal candidate holds a PhD in Biology with a
strong background in bioinformatics and skills in pro-
gramming (scripts and analysis pipelines). Experience
in identication and characterizing of behaviorally regu-
lated genes, expression proling, avian neurobiology or
genome editing are great assets. The successful candi-
date will participate in fundamental research questions
on migratory genomics. As a central member of the
group, the postdoc has good communication and organi-
zation skills and will take part in supervising students. I
highly appreciate a creative postdoc who is motivated to
contribute to and extends our research agenda with own
ideas to understand the genetic architecture of migra-
tory traits. The position will be oered for 2 years with
the possibility of extension, starting date is negotiable.
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology of-
fers a stimulating and ambitious international working
environment. Excellent infrastructure is available at all
levels, including a new high-performance computer clus-
ters and next-generation sequencing core facilities. The
Institutes main elds of work include evolutionary ecol-
ogy (Prof. Milinski), evolutionary genetics (Prof. Tautz)
and evolutionary theory (Prof. Traulsen) and hosts a
number of research groups providing ample opportuni-102 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ties for collaborations and interactions. The MPI in
Pl?n further collaborates with the nearby Christian Al-
brechts University of Kiel and the GEOMAR (Helmholtz
Centre for Ocean Research) in a joint International Max
Planck Research School that attracts PhD students from
abroad, which contributes to a multicultural working
atmosphere. The city of Pl?n is surrounded by lakes,
the Baltic Sea is nearby, oering plenty of opportunity
for leisure and outdoor activities. The nearby ports of
Kiel and Travem?nde provide access to Scandinavia, the
closest airports are Hamburg and L?beck.
The Max Planck Society is committed to also employing
handicapped individuals and especially encourages them
to apply. The Max Planck Society seeks to increase the
number of women in those areas where they are under-
represented and therefore explicitly encourages women
to apply.
Applications should include 1) a cover letter outlining
your motivation, specic interest in this project and
your relevant experience, 2) a detailed curriculum vitae
and copies of certicates, and 3) the contact details of
three academic referees. Please send the above as a
single PDF le to liedvogel@evolbio.mpg.de.
Review of applications will start on March 24th 2017
and will continue until the position is lled. Feel free to
contact me for more information.
Contact details: Dr. Miriam Liedvogel, MPRG
Behavioural Genomics, MPI for Evolutionary Biology,
August-Thienemann-Str 2, 24306 Pl?n, Germany. Email:
liedvogel@evolbio.mpg.de, http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
3004473/group behaviouralgenomics, job advert
as pdf: http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/3157913/-
2017 miggen postdoc mpi.pdf Miriam Liedvogel
<liedvogel@evolbio.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst Ploen Adaptation
BiologicalClocks
Postdoc position - \Evolutionary adaptation and physi-
ology of biological clocks"
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen,
Germany
The Max Planck Research Group \Biological Clocks"
aims to uncover the yet unknown molecular basis of
circalunar clocks, using the intertidal midge Clunio mar-
inus (Diptera) as a model. Clunio times its life cycle
to the rhythm of the tides by circalunar and circadianclocks. As the tides dier along the coastline, the clocks
of Clunio populations are genetically adapted to the
local pattern of the tides. We study these adaptations
using a combination of evolutionary genomics and molec-
ular biology, behavioral experiments and ecological eld-
work. We have shown that this approach enables the
identication of new clock molecules (Nature 540,6973).
Clunio's circalunar clock can be set by moonlight, as
well as mechanical cues and temperature cues associ-
ated with the tides. The postdoc will work with Clunio
strains that are insensitive to mechanical and moonlight
cues and use them to identify the receptors responsible
for setting the circalunar clock.
The ideal candidate holds a PhD in Biology with a strong
background in neurobiology, behavioral physiology or
molecular biology. Experience in receptor physiology,
immunohistochemistry, genome editing or cell culture
are great assets. The postdoc will participate in the ge-
nomic work related to the project. As a central member
of the group, the postdoc has good communication and
organizational skills and will take part in supervising
students. The position will be oered for 2 years with
the possibility of extension. Starting date is May 2017
or as soon as possible thereafter.
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/2169/en) oers a stimu-
lating and ambitious international working environ-
ment. Excellent infrastructure is available at all levels.
The MPI collaborates with the nearby Christian Al-
brechts University of Kiel (http://www.mnf.uni-kiel.de/-
en/einrichtung/sektion-biologie-1) and the GEOMAR
(http://www.geomar.de/en/). The town of Plon is sur-
rounded by lakes and the Baltic Sea is nearby, oering
plenty of opportunity for leisure and outdoor activities.
The nearby ports of Kiel and Travem unde provide access
to Scandinavia, the closest airport is Hamburg.
The Max Planck Society is committed to also employing
handicapped individuals and encourages them to apply.
The Max Planck Society seeks to increase the number of
women in those areas where they are underrepresented
and therefore explicitly encourages women to apply.
Applications should include a cover letter describing
your motivation to work on this project and your rele-
vant experience, a detailed CV and copies of relevant
certicates, and the contact details of three academic
referees. Please send the above as a single PDF le to
kaiser@evolbio.mpg.de.
Review of applications will start on 21st March 2017
and will continue until the position is lled. Feel free to
contact me for further information.
Dr. Tobias KaiserMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 103
Max Planck Research Group \Biological Clocks" Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 j24306 PlonjGermany Phone
+49-4522-763-224
http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/biologicalclocks
NaplesU SelectionInPlants
\A postdoctoral position studying pollinator mediated
selection of wild populations of Brassica is available
in the Department of Biology of University of Naples
Federico II supervised by Dr. Giovanni Scopece. This
position will involve eld work aimed at documenting
pollination dynamics and selection patterns of Brassica.
The ideal candidate will have a strong background in
eld experiments, pollination biology and natural se-
lection studies through plant phenotyping. Funds are
currently available to support this position for up to
one year. The candidate must be younger than 35 years
at the moment of application.
To apply, please send your CV and a brief statement of
research interests to: giovanni.scopece@unina.it
Informal inquiries are also encouraged. Applications
will be reviewed on an ongoing basis until the position
is lled."
\giovanni.scopece@unina.it"
<giovanni.scopece@unina.it >
OviedoU Spain PopulationGenetics
Post-doc position: Population genetics of alpine
grasshoppers
We are seeking a post-doc for a state-funded project on
the population genetics of endemic grasshoppers of the
Cantabrian Mountains, NW Spain. The post-doc fellow
would be responsible for analysing ddRAD sequencing
data and writing papers. Pending the doctoral degree
homologation in a Spanish University, required for this
contract, the position would start in July-August 2017
and would be funded for at least one year. Annual
remuneration: euro 35.000 (net euro 2000 per month +
2 extra salaries).The applicant must have a doctoral degree in a related
eld (e.g. Biology, Evolutionary Biology), relevant re-
search experience on population genetics, bioinformatics
skills, and ability in writing papers.
The post-doc fellow will join a team of researchers of
the Spanish National Research Council and Oviedo Uni-
versity at the Research Unit of Biodiversity (Asturias,
Spain), including Paola Laiolo, Juan Carlos Illera and
Jos e Ram on Obeso. To apply, please send a CV, a 1
page personal statement with relevant experience, and
contact information for 2-3 references to Paola Laiolo
paola.laiolo@csic.es. Applications should be sent before
March 20th, with a decision by March 31st. For ques-
tions, please contact paola.laiolo@csic.es. Background
information can be found at: http://www.unioviedo.es/-
UMIB/ Paola Laiolo
Research Unit of Biodiversity (CSIC, UO, PA) Oviedo
University - Campus Mieres Spain Tel. 0034 985458130
http://www.unioviedo.es/UMIB/es/ Paola Laiolo
<paola.laiolo@csic.es >
SanAntonio
MalariaEvolutionaryGenetics
DEPARTMENT OF GENETICS, TEXAS BIOMED-
ICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, SAN ANTONIO,
TEXAS https://www.txbiomed.org/ Job #17-
024POSTDOC- MALARIA PARASITE EVOLUTION-
ARY GENETICS I am searching for an enthusiastic
postdoctoral researcher to work on adaptation in
malaria parasites, Plasmodium falciparum. These
parasites can be maintained in the laboratory, so are
amenable to experimental and functional analysis,
and CRISPR based gene editing is established in the
laboratory. They are the target of aggressive ongoing
control programs in malaria endemic areas, so are ideal
organisms for studying ongoing selective events in na-
ture. We have long-term collaborations with researchers
in SE Asia, and collections of parasites spanning two
decades. The successful candidate will develop projects
involving genomic and/or transcriptomic analyses (with
possibilities of proteomic and metabolomic work also)
using both eld collected parasites and experimental
laboratory populations. This is an excellent opportunity
for someone who would like to work on the evolutionary
biology of an important human pathogen.
The successful applicant will join a vigorous infectious
disease program at TBRI (including work on malaria,104 EvolDir March 1, 2017
schistosomiasis, ebola, HIV, Zika, hepatitis C and TB).
The Genetics department at TBRI provides a stimu-
lating environment with work on population genomics,
quantitative genetics, metabolomics, and proteomics
and has outstanding computational, sequencing and wet
lab facilities. San Antonio is a vibrant, rapidly growing
city with an interactive research community.
RELEVANT PUBLICATIONS - Nair, S., et al. A se-
lective sweep driven by pyrimethamine treatment in
Southeast Asian malaria parasites. Mol Biol Evol 2003;
20:1526-1536. - Nair, S., et al. Adaptive copy num-
ber evolution in malaria parasites. PLoS Genet 2008;
4:e1000243. PMC2570623 - Phyo, A.P et al. Emer-
gence of artemisinin-resistant malaria on the western
border of Thailand: A longitudinal study. Lancet 2012;
379:960- 1966. PMC3525980 - Cheeseman, I.H., et al. A
major genome region underlying artemisinin resistance
in malaria. Science 2012; 336:79-82. PMC3355473 -
Anderson TJ, et al. Population parameters underlying
an ongoing soft sweep in Southeast Asian malaria para-
sites. Mol Biol Evol. 2017 Jan; 34(1): 131-144. PMCID:
PMC5216669.
EDUCATION/EXPERIENCE/SKILLS: REQUIRED:
Ph.D. in evolutionary biology, genetics, molecular biol-
ogy, or a related discipline. Strong bioinformatic skills
ideal. Ability to conduct both laboratory and computa-
tional work is an advantage. No experience of malaria
parasite research necessary.
Apply online at http://www.txbiomed.org/about/-
employment. Reference job #17-024. Application pack-
ets are accepted electronically or in hard copy. A com-
pleted application packet is a requirement for all posi-
tions. Applications will be reviewed until the position
is lled.
Tim JC Anderson Texas Biomedical Research Institute
PO Box 760549 San Antonio, TX 78245-0549
email: tanderso@TxBiomed.org
tanderso@txbiomed.org
SLU Sweden
PlantSexChromosomeEvolution
We are looking for a postdoc that will work with research
on the genomics of sex determination and sex chromo-
some turnover in willows (Salix; Salicaceae). Species
in this family can be dioecious with male and female
owers on separate individuals and among Salix species,dierent sex determination mechanisms have evolved.
The main task for the postdoc is to study sex determi-
nation mechanisms in willows to learn about the rate
of sex chromosome turnover in the Salix genus. We
are mainly working with the basket willow Salix vim-
inalis for which we have several mapping populations,
an association mapping population, a draft genome se-
quence assembly, RNAseq data from several individuals
and tissues and genotyping-by-sequence data both from
one mapping population and the association mapping
population. The postdoc will have access to all these
resources. Duties primarily will analyses of RNAseq
data collected from developing owers from both males
and females. The work will involve sampling material in
the eld, lab work including RNA and DNA-extractions
and bioinformatics analyses of RNAseq data. As there
are many dierent ways to approach these questions, we
are happy to tailor specic sub-projects to match the
skills and interests of the successful candidate.
Qualications: We are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with a PhD degree in genetics, genomics,
bioinformatics or in related subjects. Documented scien-
tic qualications within the research eld are required.
The candidate should have proven expertise in genomics
and be used to handle large genomic datasets. Prior
experience of working with computational statistical
analyses of RNAseq data is thus highly desirable. Ex-
cellent prociency in English is required, as English is
the working language in the research group. Creativity
and drive are personal characteristics that are desirable
due to the knowledge-driven aspect of the project. The
ranking of the candidates will be based on the proven
scientic competence within the research area of the
position.
Location: Department of Plant biology, Swedish Uni-
versity of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden
Type of employment: Postdoc stipend, 18 months
Employment: Full time (100 %)
How to apply: The application should include: 1) de-
scription of previous and current research interests (1-2
pages) 2) CV including list of publications 3) a copy of
your PhD-degree diploma 4) names and contact details
(address, email address and phone number) for at least
two reference persons. The application should be writ-
ten in English. The position will be open until lled,
but review of applications will start March 10, 2017.
Starting date as soon as possible or as agreed upon.
For further information and to apply contact: Professor
P ar Ingvarsson, par.ingvarsson@slu.se
The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) isMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 105
a research-intensive university that also oers unique de-
gree programmes in for example rural development and
natural resource management, environmental economics,
animal science and landscape architecture. SLU has just
over 3,000 employees, 5,000 students and has recently
invested heavily in a modern, attractive environment on
its campuses in Alnarp, Ume ~A ¥and Uppsala.
P ar K. Ingvarsson Professor, Plant genomics and breed-
ing Department of Plant Biology Uppsala BioCenter
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences PO-Box
7080 SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden
P ar Ingvarsson <par.ingvarsson@slu.se >
StanfordU
CommunityEcologyEvolution
A postdoctoral fellow position is available in the
Fukami Lab at Stanford University (www.stanford.edu/-
~fukamit). The successful candidate will use nectar-
inhabiting yeast and bacteria as a study system to ask
broad questions about ecological and evolutionary com-
munity assembly. There will be opportunities to develop
independent and collaborative research. Experience in
one or more of the following elds is desirable: microbial
metagenomics, chemical ecology, and pollination biol-
ogy. Initial appointment will be for one year, with the
possibility of extension for one or two additional years,
contingent on performance. Start date is preferably
June 2017, but exible. To apply, please e-mail a single
PDF including a cover letter, a CV, and the names
and contact information of three references to Tadashi
Fukami (fukamit@stanford.edu), with the subject line
as \Postdoctoral application <your name>". Review of
applications will begin on March 15, 2017 and continue
until a suitable candidate is identied. Informal inquiries
prior to application are welcome. Stanford University is
an armative action and equal opportunity employer,
committed to increasing the diversity of its workforce.
It welcomes applications from women, members of mi-
nority groups, veterans, persons with disabilities, and
others who would bring additional dimensions to the
university's research and teaching mission.
fukamit@gmail.comStellenboschU SouthAfrica
AntarcticPlantPhylogenomics
An exciting postdoctoral position to investigate Antarc-
tic terrestrial plant phylogenomics is available at Stellen-
bosch University (http://academic.sun.ac.za/cib/team/-
academic/jleroux.asp) and the University of Johannes-
burg (http://www.molzoolab.co.za/), South Africa; col-
laborative project. The successful applicant will be
based at Stellenbosch University, but will be expected
to spend some time at the University of Johannesburg.
The envisaged research will address a major question in
modern biology: how has plant life evolved and spread
around the Antarctic region, both in the past and cur-
rently? This research forms part of an international col-
laboration: \A Functional Biogeography of the Antarc-
tic (AFBA, see http://antarcticbiogeography.org)" as
part of the Antarctic Circumnavigation Expedition
(ACE). ACE involves 22 projects, 55 researchers and 19
countries and is the rst project of the newly created
Swiss Polar Institute.
The successful candidate will be responsible for plant
phylogenomic research on selected taxa from the Antarc-
tic and Southern Ocean Islands.
Using the latest phylogenomic and analytical approaches,
the research aims to shed light on the history of plant
life in the region, how it will respond to environmental
change, and what can be done to secure its future.
Only candidates with demonstrable (i.e. published)
skills in next generation sequencing data analyses with
an emphasis on phylogenomics will be considered. Pref-
erence will be given to candidates with previous post-
doctoral research experience and an excellent academic
track record (i.e. publications in international journals).
Successful candidates will be fully funded for 1 year,
to be extended for an additional 1 to 2 years depend-
ing on satisfactory performance. An attractive annual
bursary will be oered along with additional expenses
for research, international travel and subsistence, and
conference attendance.
Individuals from all nationalities are eligible.
To apply, please send a CV, contact details for at least
two academic references, and a brief outline of research
interests to Prof. Jaco Le Roux (jleroux@sun.ac.za) and
Prof. Bettine van Vuuren (bettinevv@uj.ac.za) by 28
February 2017. Informal inquiries are welcome. Review106 EvolDir March 1, 2017
of applications will begin immediately after the closing
date, and short-listed candidates will be contacted to
set up phone/Skype interviews. The envisaged start
date for the project would be March/April 2017.
Arsalan Emami-Khoyi <arsalan@pobox.com >
ToulouseCNRS
PlantsEvolutionaryEpigenetics
A postdoctoral research associate position is available in
the laboratory of Benoit Pujol (http://bit.ly/1svZZ6N)
at CNRS in Toulouse (France) to study evolutionary
epigenetics in Antirrhinum majus, the snapdragon plant.
The postdoctoral associate will work as a member of
the ERC-funded ANGI project and use experiments
to understand the link between epigenetic variation
and variation at ecologically relevant traits. Potential
projects are exible within the scope of the project. The
successful candidate will be part of a team of scientists
studying the evolutionary ecology and the adaptive po-
tential of plant populations. There will be scope for
collaboration on other projects underway in our team.
We are looking for a candidate with a strong back-
ground in epigenetics, experience with experimental
work in plants. Previous work on Antirrhinum majus
would be an advantage. French is not mandatory. A
Ph.D. in evolutionary ecology, quantitative genetics,
plant breeding or closely related eld is required. We
seek applicants with postdoctoral research experience.
The initial appointment is for two years, with the po-
tential for additional years of support conditional on
performance. Position starting as early as April 2017.
To apply, please send (1) a brief cover letter explaining
your interest in the position, (2) a CV, and (3) con-
tact information (phone number and email) for three
references to benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr
Closing date for application: February, 17th, 2017
SALARY: monthly salary after tax around 2000 euros
Benoit PUJOL Researcher in evolutionary ecology at
CNRS, France Quantitative genetics in the wild and
non genetic inheritance
Lab. Evolution & Diversite Biologique (EDB) Oce
104, Bat. 4R1, Universite de Toulouse Paul Sabatier,
118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse Cedex 09 Mail:
benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.frBenoit PUJOL <benoit.pujol@univ-tlse3.fr >
TrentU AmphibianAdaptation
PhD position or Post-Doctoral Fellowship investigat-
ing mechanisms underlying the plasticity of amphibian
responses to environmental stressors - Trent University
We are currently seeking a highly motivated PhD student
or Post-Doctoral Fellow who will examine mechanisms
governing the eects of environmental stressors on phe-
notypic and behavioural plasticity in amphibian models.
Building on our longstanding research on amphibian
responses to environmental stressors (including disease,
predation risk, and contaminants), we aim to further
establish a mechanistic link among ecological, physiolog-
ical, and genome-level responses in amphibian tadpoles
to natural or human-caused stressors. We are especially
interested in building a bioinformatics approach to help
identify the mechanisms involved in stressor-induced
phenotypic and behavioural plasticity. Our preliminary
work indicates dierences in gene expression that are re-
lated to tadpole exposure to dierent stressors, and our
next challenge is to establish the functional link between
expressed genes and type of stressor. Our team has ac-
cess to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment allowing
us to address these cutting-edge research questions, and
the successful candidate will have the opportunity to
develop his/her own research interests within the scope
of the broader program.
Applicants must have a strong academic record and
graduate degree(s) in Biology, Physiology, Ecology, Ge-
netics or a related eld. Candidates with an interest in
and/or knowledge of bioinformatics platforms/resources,
experience in extracting genetic material or other rel-
evant lab procedures, and conducting lab experiments
with larval amphibians, will be highly sought. Candi-
dates should demonstrate evidence of research potential
(including scientic publications), a strong work ethic,
and willingness to work in a large, dynamic, and collab-
orative research environment. The funding package is
competitive and will include a foreign tuition waiver, if
the successful applicant is an international PhD student.
The position will be closed as soon as a suitable candi-
date is found, so apply early! To apply, please submit:
cover letter, unocial transcripts, curriculum vitae, and
names of three references to: Dennis Murray (dennismur-
ray@trentu,ca; www.dennismurray.ca and Leslie Kerr;
lkerr@trentu.ca).March 1, 2017 EvolDir 107
Dennis Murray
CRC, Integrative Wildlife Conservation, Bioinformatics,
and Ecological Modeling Trent University Peterborough,
ON K9J 7B8
www.dennismurray.ca dennismurray@trentu.ca
TU Dresden EvolutionaryBiology
Dear All,
20 positions for independent postdocs have been an-
nounced at TU Dresden, Germany, without restriction
to the scientic area, alas evolutionary biologists and
geneticists may apply.
The PhD should be no more than 6 yrs ago. deadline
31 March 2017. more info: http://www.tu-dresden.de/-
otpp /Klaus
Klaus Reinhardt Professor of Applied Zoology
Dept Biology, TU Dresden D-01062 Dresden,
Germany http://tu-dresden.de/bio/appzoo pri-
vate lab page: http://tudaz.net Klaus Reinhardt
<k.reinhardt@sheeld.ac.uk >
UArkansas BehavioralGenetics
Westerman Lab Post Doctoral Fellow at The University
of Arkansas
The Westerman Lab at the University of Arkansas is
seeking a creative and motivated Post Doctoral Fellow
to investigate the genetics and neurobiology of mate
preference plasticity in butteries, to begin as soon as
late Spring 2017. The Westerman Lab studies mech-
anisms underlying behavioral diversity and plasticity,
with a focus on sensory system development and visual
learning in butteries. Current research topics include
the role of genetics and social environment in mate
preference development, behavioral and developmental
plasticity, the role of perception and sensory environ-
ment in ornament evolution, and sensory biases. The lab
is an integrative animal behavior group, and integrate
a wide range of techniques, including, but not limited
to, controlled laboratory experiments, genomics, histol-
ogy, and eld ecology. The Research incorporates bothtropical butteries and those native to Northwestern
Arkansas, and takes advantage of multiple species-rich
eld sites within a 30-minute drive of campus. For more
information, please visit the lab website at
http://www.ericawesterman.org . This position will be
expected to work in close collaboration with Dr. West-
erman on a comparative behavioral genomics project, as
well as to develop independent research projects within
the scope of the lab. In addition, this position will
be expected to collaborate with fellow lab members,
and will have the opportunity to mentor undergraduate
and graduate students. Dr. Westerman is building col-
laborations within the Biology Department, as well as
with faculty in both the Entomology and Psychological
Sciences Departments at UARK. Postdocs in the lab
will have the opportunity to work across discipline, and
will be encouraged to initiate and develop innovative
collaborative projects.
This technically integrative lab embraces creative ap-
proaches to studying animal behavior. Candidates with
a strong background in neurobiology, genomics, and
development are particularly encouraged to apply.
Funding is currently available to support this position
for two years, with the possibility for extension depend-
ing on funding and project progress.
For full consideration, please apply by Feb 28, 2017
Minimum Qualications:
- Ph.D. in biological sciences or a related eld
- Demonstrated expertise in genomics, bioinformatics,
neurobiology, or developmental biology techniques
- Experience with either multivariate statistics or statis-
tical analysis of genomic data
- Demonstrated evidence of excellent writing skills
Preferred Qualications:
- Experience in animal behavior experimental design
- Experience in live animal husbandry
- Experience in chemical ecology
- Experience in microscopy
- Experience using CRISPR/Cas9
For a complete position announcement and informa-
tion regarding how to apply, visit http://jobs.uark.edu/-
postings/18400 . Applicants must submit a cover let-
ter/letter of application, curriculum vitae, and a two-
page description of research accomplishments and future
plans uploaded to the 'Other Document' link. A list
of three professional references (name, title, email ad-
dress, and contact number) willing to provide letters108 EvolDir March 1, 2017
of reference will be requested during the application
process.
For more information, please contact:
Dr. Erica Westerman
Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Arkansas
ewesterm@uark.edu
The University of Arkansas is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action institution. The university welcomes
applications without regard to age, race/color, gender
including pregnancy), national origin, disability, religion,
marital or parental status, protected veteran status, mil-
itary service, genetic information, sexual orientation
or gender identity. Persons must have proof of legal
authority to work in the United States on the rst day
of employment. All applicant information is subject
to public disclosure under the Arkansas Freedom of
Information Act.
Erica Lynn Westerman <ewesterm@uark.edu >
UBirmingham AdaptiveEvolution
dear community, * *
*A 30-month postdoc position**is open at the Univer-
sity of Birmingham in the Environmental Genomics
Group**for an evolutionary biologist. *
the live link to the application on the University
webpage is the following: https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/-
search engine/jobs.cgi?amN vZGU9MTYy MTM5MSZ2
dF90ZW1w bGF0ZT03 Njcmb3du ZXI9NTAzM jUyM-
SZvd2 5lcnR5cG U9ZmFpci ZicmFuZF 9pZD0wJn
ZhY2Zpcm0 udmFjdGl0 bGU9NTY3 NDMmcG9z
dGluZ19j b2RlPTEx NyZyZXFza Wc9MTQ4ND
U4NjM4My 04NDEzMD RhNjNiMm Q5MDU5YT
JmNzQxOGI wOTY5ZTRl ZTI2YzBi OTNj=&jc ode21
391&vt t emplate=7 67&owner= 5032521& owner-
typ e uir&b rand id= 0&vacrm .vactitle V743&p ost-
ingc ode7& reqsig=1 484586383 -841304a6 3b2d9059
a2f7418b 0969e4ee 26c0b93c
*Job description*
One 30-month postdoctoral research fellowship in Ex-
perimental Evolutionary Ecology and Omics is available
within the School of Biosciences in the EnvironmentalGenomics Group at the University of Birmingham, UK.
\Cracking the Code of Adaptive Evolution" (dCODE) is
a multidisciplinary collaboration among seven investiga-
tors at the University of Birmingham who form a vibrant
research community to advance the eld of environmen-
tal omics. We pursue foundational science using natural
populations of the ecologically relevant model species
Daphnia. This project seeks to discover the relative
contributions of phenotypic plasticity, the epigenome,
and of molecular evolution to the process of adaptation,
by experimenting on an historical Daphnia population
that is \resurrected" from dormancy spanning 100 years
of evolution.
The candidate will contribute to the planned research
by (1) designing and conducting experiments to assess
tness changes leading to species persistence in pres-
ence of anthropogenic stress; (2) performing advanced
statistical analyses to summarize tness responses at
species level; (3) linking tness responses at species
level with ecosystem services. Ability to code in R or
similar software is required. The ideal candidate will:
(i) understand theoretical underpinnings of evolution-
ary theories; (ii) have proven experience in conducting
and analyzing experiments in the eld of evolutionary
ecology; (iii) have prior knowledge on how to link biodi-
versity and genetic diversity to ecosystem functioning
and services; (iv) have prior experience with working in
a multidisciplinary context.
The successful candidate will be responsible for all as-
pects related to laboratory experiments using Daphnia.
Applicants must hold a PhD-degree with substantial ex-
perience in experimental evolution design and analysis,
statistics and biostatistics. Ability to perform ecological
modeling and in combining experimental and omics data
will be considered an advantage.
thanks, Luisa Orsini
{
Dr Luisa Orsini Lecturer in BioSystems and Envi-
ronmental Change Fellow of the Higher Education
Academy Environmental Genomics Group, School of
Biosciences, University of Birmingham Birmingham,
B15 2TT, United Kingdom T: +44 (0)121 4145894 F:
+44 (0)121 414 5925 Email: l.orsini[at]bham.ac.uk
https://lorsini5.wixsite.com/luisaorsini http:/-
/www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/biosciences/-
sta/prole.aspx?ReferenceId=63090&Name=dr-
luisa-orsini https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Luisa Orsini \Luisa Orsini (School of Biosciences)"
<l.orsini@bham.ac.uk >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 109
UCalifornia Berkeley
FungalPopGeneticsGenomics
UCBerkeley.FungalPopulationGeneticsGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL SCHOLAR - FUNGAL POPULA-
TION GENETICS - DEPARTMENT OF PLANT &
MICROBIAL BIOLOGY
Starting as early as June 2017
TO APPLY, VISIT: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/-
apply/JPF01258
Next Applicant Review, February 21, 2017
The Department of Plant & Microbial Biology at the
University of California, Berkeley is seeking applicants
for a postdoctoral scholar position in fungal statistical
and population genetics with Drs. John Taylor and
Rachel Brem. The fellow will join a new project fo-
cused on natural genetic variation in Coccidioides, the
fungus responsible for San Joaquin Valley Fever. A col-
laborative grant that includes us and the lab of Anita
Sil at UCSF will support the sequencing of a panel
of Coccidioides isolates, and the association mapping
of dierences between strains in virulence and other
disease-associated traits. We are looking for applicants
with expertise and/or interest in genomics and statistical
genetics to participate in this exciting project.
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS Candidates must have com-
pleted all degree requirements except the dissertation or
be enrolled in an accredited PhD or equivalent degree
program in genetics, genomics, or related eld at the
time of application. Prior experience in the study of
fungi or microbes is not required.
ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS Candidates must
have a PhD or equivalent degree in genetics, genomics
or related eld by appointment start date.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS We seek a postdoc-
toral researcher with wet- and dry-lab expertise in quan-
titative genetics, genomics, and/or molecular evolution.
Experience in experimental preparation of Illumina se-
quencing libraries and computer scripting for population-
genomic analyses is preferred. Successful applicants
should be highly motivated and creative. They should
demonstrate the ability to work independently and as
a part of a team and have excellent written and verbal
communication skills.APPOINTMENT The anticipated start date for this
appointment is June, 2017. The initial appointment is
for 12 months, with renewal based on performance and
funding. This is a full-time appointment.
SALARY AND BENEFITS Salary will be commensu-
rate with qualications and experience and based on UC
Berkeley Postdoc salary scale. The annual salary range
for this position is $48,216 to $56,400. Generous benets
are included (http://vspa.berkeley.edu/postdocs)
TO APPLY, VISIT; https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/-
apply/JPF01258
Interested individuals should submit a one-page sum-
mary outlining your research interests, a current CV and
the names and contact information of three references.
Letters of reference may be requested of nalists. It is
optional to include a statement addressing past and/or
potential contributions to diversity through research,
teaching, and/or service. This position will remain open
until lled.
Questions regarding this recruitment can be directed to
John Taylor (jtaylor@berkeley.edu) and Rachel Brem
(rbrem@berkeley.edu).
All letters will be treated as condential per University
of California policy and California state law. Please
refer potential referees, including when letters are pro-
vided via a third party (i.e. dossier service or career
center) to the UC Berkeley Statement of Condentiality
(http://apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html) prior to submit-
ting their letters. The University of California is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Employer. All
qualied applicants will receive consideration for employ-
ment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability,
age or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct The Department is interested in
candidates who will contribute to diversity and equal
opportunity in higher education through their research
or teaching. The University of California, Berkeley has
an excellent benets package as well as a number of
policies and programs in place to support employees as
they balance work and family.
John Taylor Professor Plant and Microbial Biology
111 Koshland Hall University of California Berke-
ley, CA 94720-3102 jtaylor@berkeley.edu http://-
taylorlab.berkeley.edu/ Rachel Brem Associate Pro-
fessor Director, Bioinformatics Core Buck Institute
for Research on Aging 8001 Redwood Boulevard No-
vato, CA 94945 Phone: (415) 209-2093 Email: rachel-
brem@gmail.com Adjunct Associate Professor Depart-110 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ment of Plant and Microbial Biology University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCambridge MicrobialEvolution
Applicants are invited for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate in Dr Chris Illingworth's Microbial Evolution
research group in the Department of Genetics, Univer-
sity of Cambridge. One aspect of our recent research
has focused on the development of mathematical models
using population genetic methods to understand the
within-host evolution of inuenza virus. Other work
has focused on evolutionary processes in other microbial
organisms. We aim to recruit a bright and motivated in-
dividual to join the group, developing and applying new
approaches for evaluating genome sequence datasets.
Funds for this post are available for 12 months, with
the possibility of extension beyond this period.
The deadline for applications is 14th March 2017.
Essential requirements:
Have or about to be awarded a PhD in evolutionary
biology or another relevant subject; high level of mathe-
matical ability e.g. undergraduate degree in numerate
subject; knowledge of a programming language such
as R, Matlab, or C++; ability to work both indepen-
dently and as part of a team; ability to communicate
ideas eectively verbally and in writing to experts and
non-experts alike; ability to think creatively and rapidly
develop novel solutions, and enthusiasm for scientic
research.
Desirable skills:
Expertise in population genetics; experience of working
with next-generation sequence data; knowledge of virus
evolution, and a record of publication in high quality
scientic journals.
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the
'Apply' button below. This will route you to the Uni-
versity's Web Recruitment System, where you will need
to register an account (if you have not already) and log
in before completing the online application form.Applications should include a CV and a brief statement
outlining key areas of expertise, and reasons why you
would like to join the group. Informal enquiries can be
addressed to Dr Chris Illingworth (cjri2@cam.ac.uk).
Once an oer of employment has been accepted, the
successful candidate will be required to undergo a health
assessment.
Please quote reference PC11439 on your application and
in any correspondence about this vacancy.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
Chris Illingworth <cjri2@cam.ac.uk >
UCopenhagen
ComparativeGenomics BirdsInsect
A 3-year post doc position on comparative genomics
analysis is oered at The Centre for Social Evolution,
Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, Den-
mark. The position starts 1 September 2017 and will
be associated with the 3-year research project \The
interface between ecology, evolution and development
based on large-scale genomics" from the Carlsberg
Foundation.|
An important goal of eco-evo-devo is to address the
genetic basis underlying life-history responses of organ-
isms to their natural environment. The Bird genome
10K (B10K) and Global Ant Genome Alliance (GAGA)
projects, which focus on birds and ants, representing
two of the most successful animal lineages worldwide
that occupy all the major ecological niches, provide an
unprecedented opportunity to address this fundamental
question. We have now completed the genome sequenc-
ing for over 300 bird species covering all families in the
avian class. The GAGA consortium has been initiated
last year and will generate the genomes for at least
300 ant species covering all ant genera in coming three
years. By integrating these large-scale genomic data
and other available ecological data and life-history traits
information, this project aims to reveal the fundamental
ways in which environmental factors have shaped the
animal genome evolution and to understand the role of
symbiogenesis as a force in animal evolution.|
The postdoc will independently carry out comparativeMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 111
genomics studies for the B10K and GAGA projects, co-
ordinate the analyses with collaborators and writing re-
ports and scientic publications, as well as supervision of
postgraduate students. The work will include the large-
scale comparative genomics analyses with hundreds of
genomes similar with the avian phylogenomic project
papers we published in Science in 2014. It will entail
a combination of cutting-edge genomic approaches and
ecology and macroevolution knowledge. It will require
high skill of project management including preparation
reports and organization of project meetings.||
The successful candidate will become an integrated part
of the research group of Guojie Zhang. The group works
on comparative genomics and functional genomics on a
broad spectrum of animal species. The project will be
carried out at the Centre for Social Evolution, Section
for Ecology and Evolution located in Copenhagen.
Qualications
Applicants should hold a PhD degree within genomics,
bioinformatics, computer science, molecular evolution
or related elds. The position is open to both Danish
and international applicants. Hands-on experience with
large-scale genomics data analyses and working knowl-
edge of programming languages and statistical software
packages is essential and will be required. So is uent
spoken and written English as well as excellent commu-
nication and interpersonal skills. The main criterion for
selection will be the research potential of the applicant;
i.e. a good publication record will be a strong asset.|
Procedures and shortlisting
After the expiry of the deadline for applications, the
authorized recruitment manager selects applicants for
assessment on the advice of the Appointments Com-
mittee. All applicants are then immediately notied
whether their application has been passed for assessment
by an expert assessment committee. Selected applicants
are notied of the composition of the committee and
each applicant has the opportunity to comment on the
part of the assessment that relates to the applicant
him/herself. The nal selection of the successful candi-
date will be made by the Head of Department, based
on the recommendations of the assessment committee.
Salary and terms of employment
Terms of employment and payment are in accordance
with the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and
The Danish Confederation of Professional Associations
(AC). For post docs the salary is based on seniority
and is currently between DKK 32.350 and DKK 34.060
plus pension contribution a month and the possibility
to negotiate further supplement.The University of Copenhagen wishes to reect the di-
versity of society and welcomes applications from all
qualied candidates regardless of personal background.
Further information|
For further information on the project con-
tact Assistant Prof. Guojie Zhang (Email:
Guojie.Zhang@bio.ku.dk| Phone.: +45 91855431).
See also|http://socialevolution.ku.dk/home/ |or
http://zhanggj.cngb.org|for information about the
Centre for Social Evolution and its ongoing research.|
How to apply
Applications must be in English, submitted electroni-
cally and include:
§||||| A cover letter describing motivation,
project-related research experience and personal quali-
ties
§||||| Curriculum vitae
§||||| Complete list of publications
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UExeter EvolutionInsectP450
UExeter UK.InsectAdaptiveEvolution
Job title: Postdoctoral Research Fellow Job reference:
R50321 Application closing date: 02/03/2017 Loca-
tion: Cornwall Campus of University of Exeter Salary:
pounds 33,943 to pounds 41,709 per annum depending
on qualications and experience Package: Generous hol-
iday allowances, exible working, pension scheme and
relocation package (if applicable).
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Research Fel-
low to participate in a high prole and well-funded ERC
funded project entitled 'Understanding and exploiting
the P450 insect resistome'. The successful applicant
will design and carry out experiments to investigate
the evolution of insect resistance to xenobiotics. More
specically the project aims to characterise the genomic,
transcriptomic and epigenetic changes underpinning the
evolution of insect resistance to plant secondary metabo-
lites and synthetic insecticides. A range of state-of-the-
art molecular and bioinformatic approaches will be used112 EvolDir March 1, 2017
including analysis of next-gen sequencing data, PCR,
QPCR, in vitro and in vivo expression of candidate
genes and biochemical assays. The post-holder will also
contribute to other activities in the Bass lab and act as
the day-to-day line manager of a 0.6 FTE technician .
This post is available immediately until December 2020.
The fellow will be based in the Bass lab and be part
of a thriving group comprising several PhD students,
post-doctoral research fellows (including a dedicated
bioinformatician) and technicians.
The successful applicant will be able to develop research
objectives, manuscripts, projects and proposals, and
make presentations at conferences and other events.
Applicants will possess a relevant PhD or equivalent
qualication/experience in a related eld of study. The
successful applicant will also be able to work collabo-
ratively, supervise the work of others and act as team
leader as required. Applicants should have experience
in the majority of approaches detailed above.
For further information please contact Professor
Chris Bass, e-mail c.bass@ex.ac.uk. To apply go
to https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/hrpr webrecruitment/-
wrd/run/ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID=-
308939GyhP&WVID=3817591jNg&LANG=USA The
University of Exeter is a Russell Group University in
the top one percent of institutions globally. In the last
few years we have invested strategically to deliver more
than GBP 350 million worth of new facilities across our
campuses with plans for signicant further investment
over the next three to ve years.
Interviews are expected to take place on 14/3/17.
Professor Chris Bass Chair in Applied Entomology and
ERC fellow Biosciences, College of Life and Environmen-
tal Sciences, University of Exeter, Penryn Campus, Tre-
liever Road, Penryn TR10 9FE UK Phone: 01326259084
Email: c.bass@exeter.ac.uk
\Bass, Chris" <C.Bass@exeter.ac.uk >
UKentucky
InsectEndosymbiontEvolution
The Endosymbiont Ecology lab in the Department
of Entomology at the University of Kentucky (
entomology.ca.uky.edu/person/jennifer-white ) is seek-
ing a post-doctoral research associate to investigate the
inuence of facultative bacterial symbionts on the evolu-tion of insect (aphid) hosts under a selection regime. We
seek someone with expertise in transcriptomics, qPCR
validation, and DE analysis, particularly in non-model
systems. The ideal candidate will have a PhD in Biology,
Entomology, Bioinformatics or related eld, a strong
publication record, and excellent communication skills.
The salary for the position is $47,500/year + benets.
Funds are committed to the position through Dec 2018;
subsequent extension will be contingent on performance
and funding availability. The position is open immedi-
ately, but start date is exible.
The University of Kentucky is an equal opportunity
employer located in Lexington, Kentucky, a mid-sized
city of ~300,000 people. We are less than an hour from
great hiking, camping and climbing in the Red River
Gorge and Daniel Boone National Forest.
Inquiries regarding the position should be directed to
me (Jen White) at jenwhite.uk@gmail.com. To apply,
please send a statement of research interests, a current
CV, and contact information for three references. Appli-
cation review will start immediately and continue until
the position is lled.
\jenawhite@uky.edu" <jenawhite@uky.edu >
ULausanne
GenomicsPlantMicrobeSymbioses
Postdoctoral position - Epigenetic versus Genetic and
Variation in plant microbe symbioses (Uni. Lausanne,
Switzerland)
A postdoctoral position is available in the Sanders' group
to study the role of epigenetic versus genetic variation
in mycorrhizal fungi on plant growth. Our research in-
dicates that variation in mycorrhizal fungi is associated
with large dierences in plant growth. We will study
this in more detail to nd out which aspects of genetic
or epigenetic variation in these fungi causes high growth
rates in plants (especially cassava).
It is intended that the results of this project will be
combined with research in the eld where our work is
leading to real solutions to increase production of food in
areas of the world where starvation is a major problem.
Candidates must be highly motivated, have a PhD (or
expect to have very soon), and have knowledge in fol-
lowing elds: epigenetics; quantitative genetics. Sound
knowledge of bioinformatics would be an advantage andMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 113
an interest in solving problems in an analytical way.
More information about our work can be found at http:/-
/people.unil.ch/iansanders/ The project is part of a
wider collaboration between the University of Lausanne,
Dr Marco Pagni at the Vital-IT center of the SIB Swiss
Institute of Bioinformatics and Prof. Alia Rodriguez at
the National University of Colombia.
The position is available as soon as possible and is ini-
tially for 1 year. It is renewable for a maximum of 4
more years (depending on the number of years after re-
ceiving your PhD). Preference will be given to someone
who obtained their PhD recently.
To apply send a CV and motivation letter in English, by
email to ian.sanders@unil.ch. Please include the names
of at least 2 people who I can contact for a reference.
Applications must be received not later than 15th March
2017.
NOTE: Due to a lack of qualied candidates, this po-
sition is being re-advertised. If you have previously
applied for this position then it is not necessary to send
your application again.
Prof. Ian R. Sanders Dept. of Ecology & Evo-
lution University of Lausanne Biophore Building
1015 Lausanne Switzerland Tel (direct): +41 21
692 4261 Tel (Secretary): +41 21 692 4260 Fax:
+41 21 692 4265 Email: ian.sanders@unil.ch http:/-
/www.unil.ch/dee/page7238 en.html **See my new web-
site** http://people.unil.ch/iansanders/ Ian Sanders
<ian.sanders@unil.ch >
ULeubeck SystemsBiol
PostDoc Position
What we are looking for Two postdoctoral positions are
available in the team of \Medical Systems Biology". We
are looking for a highly motivated researcher with a great
interest in Systems Biology, bioinformatics and biology
and a track record for analysis of high-throughput data.
You will contribute to an internationally competitive
research group that is embedded within the Excellence
Cluster 306 \Inammation at Interfaces" which employs
high-throughput assays, medical research, and epidemi-
ological studies to unravel the molecular events leading
to autoimmune diseases in the skin and in the gut. As
such you will be dealing with forefront clinical data,
mouse models and in vitro assays to develop models
for the prediction, diagnosis and modelin of complexdiseases.
Required skills - PhD in the area of bioinformatics, com-
putational biology, systems biology, Physics or a related
eld; - Experience in integration and analysis of multi-
ple next- generation sequencing data sets; - Experience
with common bioinformatics methods, tools, websites
(e.g. NCBI, UCSC, Ensembl) and data resources (e.g.
TCGA ENCODE); - Experience with retrieving, nor-
malizing and analysing high- throughput datasets using
R packages / Bioconductor, as well as in the visual
presentation of biological data from high- throughput
experiments; - Good communication skills, and the abil-
ity to conduct research independently. Please apply
with you current Curriculum Vitae outlining your sci-
entic interest, publications, future goals as well as 2
references.
The post is oered for a term of two years, with the pos-
sibility of prolongation and is paid according to TV-L
E13.
Please send you application to hauke.busch(at)uni-
luebeck.de
To learn more about our group, please visit https:/-
/www.systembiologie.uni-luebeck.de Axel K unstner
<kunstner@evolbio.mpg.de >
ULiverpool EvolutionaryGenetics
The Betancourt lab is seeking a postdoctoral researcher
to work on a BBSRC-funded project investigating
the impact of transposable elements on tness, using
Drosophila as a model. The project will use a vari-
ety of methods, including deep sequencing, population
genomics, laboratory assays, and genetics.
The ideal applicant will have a PhD in a relevant eld,
experience with bioinformatics, will work as part of a
team that includes a full-time research technician, and
will also be encouraged to develop his/her own research
interests. Dr. Betancourt's group has tackled a wide
variety of questions in evolutionary genetics, addressing
the role of recombination and sex-linkage in evolution,
and the spread of selsh elements in Drosophila (more
information here: http://www.yevolution.net/).
The Institute of Integrative Biology (IIB) at the
University of Liverpool houses a large and active
research faculty (see: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/-
integrative-biology/about/), and includes several
active groups in evolutionary biology (see https:/-114 EvolDir March 1, 2017
/www.liverpool.ac.uk/integrative-biology/sta/-
evolution-ecology-and-behaviour/). IIB also houses
several excellent core facilities, including a genomics
centre (more here: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/-
integrative-biology/facilities-and-services/).
The post is available for 3 years from the time of ap-
pointment. The ocial closing date for applications
is March 23, 2017. To apply, search for job reference
005944 at https://recruit.liverpool.ac.uk ; please include
a cover letter, CV, and details for three references.
Informal enquires to A.Betancourt@liverpool.ac.uk very
welcome.
Cheers, Andrea
UMarylandBaltimoreCounty
EvolutionaryBiology
Natural Sciences Pre-Professoriate Fellowship, 2017-
2019 apply.interfolio.com/39954 The Department of Bio-
logical Sciences at the University of Maryland Baltimore
County (UMBC) invites applications for the Natural
Sciences Pre-Professoriate Fellowship. Candidates with
research and teaching interests in all areas of Biological
Sciences will be considered. The purpose of the Program
is to support promising scholars who are committed to
diversity in academia and prepare those scholars for
a possible tenure track appointment at UMBC upon
completion of the two-year appointment period. We
are particularly interested in receiving applications from
individuals who are members of groups that historically
have been underrepresented in the professoriate.
UMBC is a national model for diversity and inclusive ex-
cellence in STEM through its Meyerho Scholar http:/-
/meyerho.umbc.edu/ and Graduate Fellows programs
(http://meyerhograd.umbc.edu/), two of the most in-
novative and successful programs in promoting diversity
and preparing students from underrepresented groups
for careers in STEM. With many of the Meyerho schol-
ars pursuing undergraduate and graduate studies in
Biological Sciences, ourfaculty play a leading role in
mentoring and developing the next generation of diverse
professional workforce in STEM. The Department of
Biological Sciences is a premier research-intensive de-
partment with thriving graduate and undergraduate
programs (http://biology.umbc.edu). Our faculty are
engaged in cutting-edge research, which attracts major
federal, state, and private funding.The fellow will be appointed as a Research Assistant Pro-
fessor for a two-year term beginning August 17, 2017.
The fellow will receive a starting stipend of $50,000,
health benets, $5,000 for conference travel and prepa-
ration of scholarly work, up to $5,000 in instrument
services, up to $10,000 for supplies /consumables, lab
space, oce space with computer, library access, and
other privileges at the university. During the two-year
term of appointment, most the fellow's time will be de-
voted to pursuing research. In addition, the fellow will
teach one course (one semester only) per year. Highly
experienced research and teaching mentors will meet
with the fellow regularly to provide guidance on develop-
ing a pedagogically sound teaching philosophy and plan,
and improving the skills needed to pursue an academic
research career, including proposal and manuscript writ-
ing, and technical presentation skills. The fellow will
also benet from professional development opportunities
across the campus.
Candidates will be selected on the basis of scholarly
promise and the potential to add to the diversity of the
UMBC community. Applicants must have completed
their doctoral degree when the term of appointment
commences (August 17, 2017).
Application Instructions: to apply, please visit ap-
ply.interfolio.com/39954
Deadline: Full consideration will be given to
those applicants who submit all materials to ap-
ply.interfolio.com/39954 by MARCH 15, 2017. A com-
plete submission will consist of:
1) Cover Letter
2) Curriculum Vitae
3) Three Letters of Reference
4) Statement of Proposed Research Plan (2-3 pages)
5) Personal Statement that details your demonstrated
commitment to diversity eorts and the mission of
UMBC, and why you should be selected for this po-
sition (1-3 pages)
6) Teaching Statement (1-2 pages)
Questions regarding the program may be addressed to:
Dr. Phyllis Robinson, probinso@umbc.edu, however
all application materials MUST be submitted through
Interfolio.
The University of Maryland Baltimore County is
an Equal Opportunity Employer/Armative Action.
UMBC is the recipient of an NSF ADVANCE Institu-
tional Transformation Award to increase the participa-
tion of women in academic careers.
Apply.interfolio.com/39954March 1, 2017 EvolDir 115
Kevin Omland, PhD UMBC Presidential Research Pro-
fessor 2016-2019 Department of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Maryland, Baltimore County 1000 Hilltop
Circle Baltimore, MD 21250
Kevin Omland <omland@umbc.edu >
UmeaU 5PDF and 5PhD
Metagenomics
The Department of Ecology and Environmental Sci-
ence, Ume ~A ¥University, Sweden, invites applicants
for 5 postdoc and 5 PhD positions in ecology, biogeo-
chemistry, paleolimnology, environmental genomics and
modelling of northern lakes
In a ve-year project, \Climate change induced regime
shifts in Northern lake ecosystems" at Ume ~A ¥Univer-
sity, Sweden, funded by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg
Foundation, we are recruiting 5 postdocs (2- year fellow-
ships) and 5 PhD students (4-year positions). Below we
list each position with a short title indicating the focus
of the position, the name of the primary advisor/mentor,
application deadline, and a web link to the full text of
the advertisement. The full advertisements are also
appended as separate pdf les for all PhD positions and
all postdoc fellowships, respectively.
Project description Eects of climate change on ecologi-
cal communities are expected to be particularly strong at
northern latitudes. The collaborative project \Climate
change induced regime shifts in northern lake ecosys-
tems" addresses two major, climate-dependent drivers
of northern lakes: (i) altered thermal regimes, and (ii)
increased input of terrestrial dissolved organic matter
(tDOM). In a series of interconnected work packages
we will use experimental, comparative, paleo-ecological,
environmental genomics and modeling approaches to
study the impact of temperature and tDOM on ecosys-
tem processes ranging from primary production and
greenhouse gas dynamics to sh production and food
web dynamics. We expect responses to these drivers to
be highly nonlinear.
PhD positions 1. Greenhouse gases in lakes (ad-
visor Jan Karlsson, deadline 20 February 2017)
https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:133460/ 2. Eects of climate change on
sh production (advisor P ar Bystr om, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:133528/ 3. Primary productionin lakes (advisor Ann-Kristin Bergstr om, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/-
what:job/jobID:133628/ 4. Modelling lake ecosystems
(advisor Sebastian Diehl, deadline 9 March 2017)
https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:133564/ 5. Long term climate and environmental
changes (advisor: Richard Bindler, deadline 20
February 2017) https://umu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:133685/ Postdoctoral Fellowships
1. Climate impact on sh production and consumer
resource interactions (mentor P ar Bystr om, deadline
27 February 2017) http://www.umu.se/english/-
about-umu/news-events/grants/6-75-17 2. Climate
Impacts on Benthic Processes of Northern Lakes
(mentor Ryan Sponseller, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-77-17 3. Climate impact on C cycling in lakes
(mentor Jan Karlsson, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-76-17 4. Climate impact on methane cycling
in lakes (mentors David Bastviken and Jan Karlsson,
deadline 27 February 2017) http://www.umu.se/-
english/about-umu/news-events/grants/6-78-17 5.
Environmental genomics in northern Swedish lakes
(mentor Xia-Ru Wang, deadline 27 February 2017)
http://www.umu.se/english/about-umu/news-events/-
grants/6-79-17 Xiao-Ru Wang
Xiao-Ru Wang, PhD Dept. of Ecology and Environ-
mental Science Ume ~A ¥Univeristy SE-901 87 Ume ~A ¥,
Sweden xiao-ru.wang@umu.se
Xiao-Ru Wang <xiao-ru.wang@umu.se >
UMichigan EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Computational Evolutionary
Genomics at University of Michigan
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory
of Jianzhi \George" Zhang in a collaborative project
with Dr. Joong-Ki Park on marine animal genomics
that is funded by the Korean government. The postdoc-
toral fellow will analyze newly generated animal genomic
and transcriptomic data to address various evolutionary
questions. The position requires a motivated individual
with an interest in evolution and experience in analyz-
ing next-generation sequence data. Applicants should
email CV and contact information of three references to
jianzhi@umich.edu. The initial appointment will be for
one year, but the appointment is renewable contingent116 EvolDir March 1, 2017
on satisfactory performance and availability of funding.
For further information about the Zhang lab, see http:/-
/www.umich.edu/ ~zhanglab/ . \jianzhi@umich.edu"
<jianzhi@umich.edu >
UOslo PopulationGenomics
Department of Biosciences
Researcher in population and landscape genomics
Position as research fellow available at Department of
Biosciences, Section for Genetics and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (EVOGENE).
This researcher position will begin as soon as April 2017,
but the start date can be exible. Initial appointment
is for two years.
Job description/ Project description:
The Kauserud ^As Lab at the University of Oslo is seeking
a motivated Researcher to be part of an ongoing col-
laborative project investigating the eect of forest frag-
mentation on the genetic variation of wood-decay fungi
throughout Fennoscandia. The research programme
FunGen, aims to enhance fundamental knowledge per-
taining to the evolutionary processes responsible for
generating and maintaining genetic diversity within pop-
ulations of fungi in order to provide baseline information
for improved forest management practices and conserva-
tion initiatives. This project is funded by the Research
Council of Norway (NFR), under the programme Miljo-
forsk.
For further information please visit our webpage:
http://www.mn.uio.no/ibv/english/research/sections/-
evogene/projects/fun gen/
Depending on her/his specic expertise and qualica-
tions, the selected candidate would be responsible for:
- the analysis of a RAD sequencing data set generated
from several populations of a wood-decay fungal species.
The corresponding genome has been sequenced in col-
laboration with the Joint Genome Institute. This data
set is available and the postdoc/researcher will carry
out the bio-informatics & population genomics analyses
(Task1).
- both the wetlab and computational analysis of other
polypore species sampled on a macro landscape-scale.
In this subproject, the postdoc/researcher will work in
close collaboration with other partners (NINA, NIBIOand SLU) involved in the landscape analyses (Task 2).
The candidate will also have opportunities for imple-
menting her/his scientic ideas in dierent subprojects.
Qualications:
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for the fellowships will be selected in accor-
dance with this, and expected to be in the upper segment
of their class with respect to academic credentials.
The candidate must have obtained by the start date a
PhD or other corresponding education equivalent to a
Norwegian doctoral degree in ecology, population ge-
netics, evolutionary genomics or bioinformatics. We
seek a highly motivated and skilled person who is able
to work independently, to take own initiatives and to
have a strong interest in producing high quality research
and writing scientic publications. Good writing and
communication competencies along with excellent team
working traits are highly desirable. The ideal candidate
would have experience in preparing libraries for next-gen
sequencing (RADseq/GBS), demonstrated bioinformat-
ics skills in 'Big-data' analytical approaches and high
expertise in population genetics analyses. The candi-
date should be familiar with programming languages
like Unix and Python/Perl and have advanced statisti-
cal skills, preferably in R. Knowledge of the Norwegian
language is not required.
A good command of English is required.
Salary:
Position code 1109, Salary NOK 486 100 - 567 100 per
year ( pay grade 57 -65), depending on qualications
and seniority.
The application must include: * Application letter * CV
(summarizing education, positions, pedagogical expe-
rience, administrative experience and other qualifying
activity) * Copies of educational certicates, transcript
of records and letters of recommendation * A complete
list of publications and up to 5 academic works that
the applicant wishes to be considered by the evaluation
committee * Names and contact details of 2-3 references
(name, relation to candidate, e-mail and telephone num-
ber)
Please remember that all documents should be in En-
glish or a Scandinavian language.
In accordance with the University of Oslo's equal oppor-
tunities policy, we invite applications from all interested
individuals regardless of gender or ethnicity.
UiO has an agreement for all employees, aiming to secure
rights to research results a.o.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 117
* Region: * Oslo
* Job type: * Contract
* Working hours: * Full-time
* Working days: * Day
* Application deadline: * 17 February, 2017
* Location: * Oslo
* Reference number: * 2017/1655
* Company homepage: * http://www.mn.uio.no/ibv/ *
Contacts: * Sundy Maurice Telephone: +47 22845918
* Questions regarding Easycruit, contact HR Ocer
Torunn Standal Guttormsen Telephone: +47 22 85 42
72
Sundy Maurice Researcher Mycology Group Section for
Genetics and Evolutionary Biology University of Oslo
Norway sandym@ibv.uio.no
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU OralMicrobiomeEvol
Postdocin Evolutionary Biology/Metagenomics
Metagenomicsapproach to studying animal-environment
interactions through time and space
Apostdoctoral researcher position for a highly motivated
young scientist is available in the Primate Diversity and
Evolution Lab headed by Katerina Guschanski at the
Evolutionary Biology Centre of Uppsala University, Swe-
den.
Ourgroup is interested in understanding how evolution-
ary and ecological processes shape biological diversity.
To achieve this goal, we take a temporal approach, com-
paring time-spaced records of species diversity, presence
and abundance. Currently, we are expanding our ana-
lytical framework to the study of organism-environment
interactions by exploring changes in the oral microbiome
through time and space, with the aim to understand the
impact of environmental and population-level processes
on these dynamics. The current project will focus on
temporal and spatial changes in the oral microbiome,
diet, health, and host genomic proles in a number of
mammalian species.Forthis project, funded by the Swedish Research Coun-
cil FORMAS, we are looking for a creative and skilled
postdoctoral scientist to drive large-scale metagenomic
data analysis. The ideal candidate will have a solid
background in evolutionary genomics, experience with
metagenomic analyses, and demonstrated bioinformat-
ics skills to handle large-scale genomic data. Experience
with ancient DNA techniques, including sample extrac-
tion and NGS library preparation, will be an important
asset. A passion for science, good interpersonal skills,
and strong writing skills are prerequisites for the posi-
tion.
Merits: Weare looking for a candidate with an open-
minded, cooperative attitude, who can work both inde-
pendently and in a team, and is open to training junior
group members. This project is carried out in collab-
oration with a number of researchers in Sweden and
worldwide. Strong interpersonal skills and the ability to
communicate clearly across disciplines are required.
Eligibility/Qualication: Thesuccessful candidate must
have a Ph.D completed within 3 years of the applica-
tion deadline. Those applicants that received their PhD
earlier should be given the possibility, if special cir-
cumstances exist. Special circumstances are prolonged
periods of illness, parental leave, military service, union
duties and others of similar character. Prociency in
English is a requirement. In ranking eligible candidates,
special importance will be given to scientic and inter-
personal skills.
Theenvironment: TheEvolutionary Biology Centre
(EBC, http://www.ebc.uu.se/) is one of the world's
leading research institutions in evolutionary biology and
part of Uppsala University - the oldest university in
Scandinavia. Uppsala University, ranked top among
European Universities in the subject of biology (CHE
European ranking), attracts approximately 40.000 stu-
dents from all over the world, creating an international
and stimulating research environment. The city of Upp-
sala is a vibrant college town, less than an hour's train
ride away from Stockholm (and even closer to Arlanda
International Airport), with beautiful and easy accessi-
ble surroundings.
Appointment: Thisis a two year position. Salary com-
mensurate to experience. Start date is negotiable, but
strong preference will be given to candidates that can
start by early Summer 2017.
Application: Theapplication should include (1) a cover
letter that clearly states the candidate's research in-
terests, qualication, and relevant experience (max. 2
A4 pages), (2) CV including a list of publications, (3)
copy of the doctoral degree, and (4) contact information
for three references. Please clearly indicate personal118 EvolDir March 1, 2017
circumstances (such as parental leave) that are relevant
for the assessment of your eligibility.
Applicationdeadline is February 28, 2017. For more
information about the position please contact: Kateri-
naGuschanski: katerina.guschanski@ebc.uu.se
Formore information on ongoing research in our
group, see: http://www.ieg.uu.se/animal-ecology/-
Research+groups/guschanski-lab Toapply, please fol-
low the link to the central university application por-
tal: https://uu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:login/-
jobID:134861 orpress the \login and apply" button at
the bottom of the ad on the Uppsala University web-
page: http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=134861 KaterinaGuschanski Assistantpro-
fessor EvolutionaryBiology Centre Departmentof Ecol-
ogy and Genetics/Animal Ecology UppsalaUniversity
Norbyv agen18D SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden
Labpage:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU OralMicrobiomeEvol 2
Postdoc in Evolutionary Biology/Metagenomics
This is an update to the previously posted position.
The application deadline has been extended to March
17, 2017.
Academic age restriction to 3 years after PhD has been
removed. More senior researchers are welcome to apply
(see below for application instructions).
A postdoctoral researcher position for a highly moti-
vated young scientist is available in the Primate Diver-
sity and Evolution Lab headed by Katerina Guschanski
at the Evolutionary Biology Centre of Uppsala Univer-
sity, Sweden. The project is concerned with studying
animal-environment interactions through time and space
using a metagenomics approach.
Our group is interested in understanding how evolution-
ary and ecological processes shape biological diversity.
To achieve this goal, we take a temporal approach, com-
paring time-spaced records of species diversity, presenceand abundance. Currently, we are expanding our ana-
lytical framework to the study of organism-environment
interactions by exploring changes in the oral microbiome
through time and space, with the aim to understand the
impact of environmental and population-level processes
on these dynamics. The current project will focus on
temporal and spatial changes in the oral microbiome,
diet, health, and host genomic proles in a number of
mammalian species.
For this project, funded by the Swedish Research Coun-
cil FORMAS, we are looking for a creative and skilled
postdoctoral scientist to drive large-scale metagenomic
data analysis. The ideal candidate will have a solid
background in evolutionary genomics, experience with
metagenomic analyses, and demonstrated bioinformat-
ics skills to handle large-scale genomic data. Experience
with ancient DNA techniques, including sample extrac-
tion and NGS library preparation, will be an important
asset. A passion for science, good interpersonal skills,
and strong writing skills are prerequisites for the posi-
tion.
Merits: We are looking for a candidate with an open-
minded, cooperative attitude, who can work both inde-
pendently and in a team, and is open to training junior
group members. This project is carried out in collab-
oration with a number of researchers in Sweden and
worldwide. Strong interpersonal skills and the ability to
communicate clearly across disciplines are required.
Eligibility/Qualication: The successful candidate must
have a Ph.D. Prociency in English is a requirement.
In ranking eligible candidates, special importance will
be given to scientic and interpersonal skills.
The environment: The Evolutionary Biology Centre
(EBC, http://www.ebc.uu.se/) is one of the world's
leading research institutions in evolutionary biology and
part of Uppsala University - the oldest university in
Scandinavia. Uppsala University, ranked top among
European Universities in the subject of biology (CHE
European ranking), attracts approximately 40.000 stu-
dents from all over the world, creating an international
and stimulating research environment. The city of Upp-
sala is a vibrant college town, less than an hour's train
ride away from Stockholm (and even closer to Arlanda
International Airport), with beautiful and easy accessi-
ble surroundings.
Appointment: This is a two year position. Salary com-
mensurate to experience. Start date is negotiable, but
strong preference will be given to candidates who can
start by early Summer 2017.
Application: The application should include (1) a cover
letter that clearly states the candidate's research in-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 119
terests, qualication, and relevant experience (max. 2
A4 pages), (2) CV including a list of publications, (3)
copy of the doctoral degree, and (4) contact information
for three references. Please clearly indicate personal
circumstances (such as parental leave) that are relevant
for the assessment of your eligibility.
Application deadline is March 17, 2017. For more in-
formation about the position please contact: Katerina
Guschanski: katerina.guschanski@ebc.uu.se
For more information on ongoing research in our
group, see: http://www.ieg.uu.se/animal-ecology/-
Research+groups/guschanski-lab All applications are
handled through the central university application por-
tal. Please follow dierent links depending on your
academic seniority.
If you completed your PhD within 3 years of the ap-
plication deadline, please follow: http://www.uu.se/-
en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=134861 If
you completed your PhD more than 3 years of
the application deadline, please follow: https://-
uu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:138339/
Katerina Guschanski Assistant professor Evolutionary
Biology Centre Department of Ecology and Genet-
ics/Animal Ecology Uppsala University Norbyv agen
18D
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UQuebec AT
ForestPopulationGenetics
Postdoctoral position in forest genetics
The Institute of Forest Research at the University of
Quebec in Abitibi-T emiscamingue (UQAT) is looking
for a postdoctoral researcher in forest genetics, popu-
lation biology, and ecology. The project investigates
genetic variation in tree growth with an interest in link-
ing climate, demography, functional traits, population
genetics and ecosystem processes in forest tree species.
The position will be based at the Institute of Forest Re-
search http://www.uqat.ca/programmes/irf/)in Rouyn-
Noranda, Quebec, Canada. The position will collaborate
closely the Center for Forest research network (http://-www.cef-cfr.ca/) and the industrial Chair in sustainable
forest management (http://chaireafd.uqat.ca/)
Desired qualications include: a PhD in ecology and
evolutionary biology, knowledge of modern genetic meth-
ods, knowledge of bioinformatics, programming skills in
R, and strong writing and communication skills. Most
of the work could be done in English but basic French
would be an asset.
Initial appointment is for two years, and is potentially
renewable. Salary starts at 48K with benets.
To apply send a single PDF le containing a cover
letter, CV, contact information for three references,
and two relevant publications or manuscripts to
Francine.tremblay@uqat.ca with \IFR Postdoc Position"
in the subject line. Applications will be reviewed on a
continuing basis until the position is lled.
Please contact Francine.tremblay@uqat.ca with any
questions.
Francine Tremblay, Ph.D. Doyenne  a la recherche
et  a la cr eation Universit e du Qu ebec en Abitibi-
T emiscamingue 445 boul. de l'Universit e Rouyn-
Noranda, Qc. J9X 5E4 t el. (819) 762-0971 poste 2128
\Tremblay, Francine" <Francine.Tremblay@uqat.ca >
USheeld Speciation
The Post-doctoral Research Associate will work with
Professor Roger Butlin and Dr Anja Westram to advance
a NERC-funded project on the routes to speciation in
the coastal gastropod, Littorina saxatilis. The project
is focused on the roles of divergent selection and in-
compatibility in speciation and requires a mix of skills
including molecular ecology laboratory techniques, anal-
ysis of next generation sequence and genotype data,
phenotypic (including behavioural) observations and
eld sampling with the help of collaborators. You will
be expected to have a strong commitment to research in
evolutionary genetics and a special interest in processes
of speciation.
You should hold a PhD (or equivalent experience) in
evolutionary genetics and have experience of research
in evolutionary genetics. Experience in the handling
of sequence and/ or expression data and experience of
constructing bioinformatics pipelines is desirable.
The position is available from 1 May 2017, or as soon
as possible thereafter, until 30 September 2019120 EvolDir March 1, 2017
For further details, and to apply, go to www.shef.ac.uk/-
jobs - position reference UOS015526, closing date 30
March 2017
For more information, email r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk or
a.westram@shef.ac.uk
{ Roger K Butlin
Professor of Evolutionary Biology Guest Professor Ani-
mal and Plant Sciences Centre for Marine Evolutionary
Biology The University of Sheeld Department of Ma-
rine Sciences Western Bank University of Gothenburg
Sheeld S10 2TN Gothenburg UK Sweden
r.k.butlin@shef.ac.uk
+44(0)114 2220097
Roger Butlin <r.k.butlin@sheeld.ac.uk >
UYork UK
LepsEvolResponsesToEnvChange
We are seeking a highly motivated Postdoctoral Re-
search Associate to undertake research on UK butteries
and moths in order to understand the ecological and
evolutionary responses of species to recent environmen-
tal change. You will compare present-day populations
with museum specimens across a wide range of species,
complemented by detailed lab and eld studies of the
speckled wood buttery Pararge aegeria.
You will have experience of ecological eldwork, in-
sect rearing and the analysis of long-term ecological
data. You will collaborate with other researchers on the
project, who are developing genomic information and
carrying out computer modelling. You will disseminate
the results through written scientic papers and oral
presentations, and also disseminate their implications
for policy and conservation.
You will join an exciting NERC funded project, based in
the research groups of Jane Hill, Chris Thomas, Kanchon
Dasmahapatra and Calvin Dytham in the Department
of Biology at York. The project will involve collabo-
ration with the research groups of Ilik Saccheri and
Greg Hurst at the University of Liverpool, Jon Bridle
and Mark Beaumont at the University of Bristol, Ian
Owens at the Natural History Museum, David Roy at
the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, James Bell at
Rothamsted Research and Richard Fox and colleagues
at the NGO Buttery Conservation.For informal enquiries please contact Professor Jane Hill
on +44 (0)1904 328642 or email jane.hill@york.ac.uk.
\kanchon.dasmahapatra@york.ac.uk"
<kanchon.dasmahapatra@york.ac.uk >
Vienna ConservationCamels
*PHD/ POSTDOC, VETMEDUNI VIENNA, AUS-
TRIA*
*CHARACTERIZATION OF THE IM-
MUNOGENOME IN DOMESTIC, WILD AND
EXTINCT OLD WORLD CAMELIDS*
We encourage applications from highly motivated
candidates for 1 PhD and 1 Postdoc position within
the FWF (Austrian Science Foundations) funded
bilateral project Austria - Czech Republic, between
the Conservation Genetics Group (Pamela Burger
lab< https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research-
institute-of-wildlife-ecology/forschung/schwerp/-
genetik/population-genetics-and-conservation-genetics/
>), Research Institute of Wildlife Ecology, Vetmeduni
Vienna and the Animal Genetics Lab (Petr Horin
lab< https://www.ceitec.eu/ceitec-vfu/animal-
immunogenomics/rg26 >), University of Veterinary and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno.
TOPIC: Camels present a modied form of single-
domain heavy-chain antibodies (IgG) that do not asso-
ciate with light chains, while their V-regions are free
to interact with antigens. We believe that evolution
and domestication have shaped the genomic regions en-
coding the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC)
class I, II and III molecules and the Natural Killer Cell
Receptor (NKR) due to a combination of changes in
pathogen pressure and intense articial selection. We
will study these complex genomic regions involved in
immunity and resistance to disease, their diversity, (co-
)evolution and selection in the three extant Old World
camel species *Camelus ferus*, *Camelus bactrianus*
and *Camelus dromedarius* as well as in the extinct
wild dromedary.
DURATION: 3 years; start: PhD - September 2017;
PostDoc - exible, latest Sept. 2017
LOCATION: The *PhD position* is part of
the prestigious PhD programme <https://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/studies/degree-programmes/-
phd-programme/ >of the Vetmeduni Vienna and
will be located at the Research Institute of WildlifeMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 121
Ecology<https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research-
institute-of-wildlife-ecology/ >, Vetmeduni Vienna,
with frequent research stays at the Animal Genetics lab
in Brno (CZ) as well as travels to the Palaeogenomic
Core Facility, Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich
(DE) and the College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell
University (USA).
The *Postdoc *is associated with the Postdoc pro-
gramme<https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/-
young-scientists/ >of the Vetmeduni Vienna and will
mainly be placed at the Research Institute of Wildlife
Ecology<https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research-
institute-of-wildlife-ecology/ >, Vetmeduni Vienna, with
frequent interactions with the bioinformatics support
group at Brno University.
The Vetmeduni Vienna oers a module-based leadership
programme with individual mentoring, career planning
and coaching, covering a wide range of competencies.
REQUIREMENTS: The *successful PhD candidate*
can show (i) a Master degree in Life Sciences (biology,
genetics, etc.), Veterinary Medicine or related elds, (ii)
broad experience in molecular genetics (wet lab) tech-
niques including DNA/RNA extraction and (real-time)
PCR, and (iii) principle knowledge of population ge-
netics and statistics. Candidates with bioinformatics
skills (command line, R environment, next generation
sequencing data analysis) or experience in ancient DNA
analysis will be favored.
The *obligatory requirements for the Postdoc* include
(i) completed PhD or doctorate in Biological Sciences,
Computational Biology, Statistical Genomics or related
elds, (ii) prior experience with either population genet-
ics, comparative genomics or statistical genetics, and (iii)
good knowledge of NGS data analysis (denovo assembly,
re-sequenced data) and genome-wide association stud-
ies. Candidates with good programming skills (Python,
Perl, etc.) or experience in ancient DNA analysis will
be preferred.
APPLICATIONS: Please send your complete applica-
tion within the next three weeks as single pdf con-
taining a 1-page (max.) motivation letter, CV in-
cluding publications and names of 2 references to
pamela.burger@vetmeduni.ac.at
Special interview grants for Postdoc applicants: The
top three candidates will be invited for an interview
to Vienna, with 80% of travel/accommodation costs
covered.
*APPLICATION DEADLINE: Feb 22nd, 2017*
We look forward to receiving your applications.
Dr.med.vet. Pamela Burger Forschungsinstitut f ~A^A1
4rWildtierkunde und ~A-kologie Vetmeduni Vienna
Savoyenstra ~A^Ae 1 1160 Wien, Austria
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Vienna StatisticalGenomics
THREE YEAR POSTDOC POSITION IN STATISTI-
CAL GENOMICS
The postdoctoral position will be part of a joint
project between the groups of Carolin Kosiol
(University of St. Andrews / Vetmeduni Vienna,
https://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/-
research/research-groups/kosiol-lab/ ), Gergely Sz oll osi
(Etv os University Budapest, http://ssolo.web.elte.hu/-
), Asger Hobolth (Aarhus University, http://-
www.daimi.au.dk/ ~asger/). The recent sequencing
of genomes of closely related species and of many
individuals from the same species enables the study
of speciation and the inference of the history of
populations. Standard phylogenetic methods reduce
entire populations to single points in genotypic space
by modelling evolution as a process in which a single
gene mutates along the branches of a phylogeny.
Recently, we have developed new approaches that
allow the inclusion of population genetics such as the
Wright-Fisher model (Tataru et al, Syst Biol 2016;
Hobolth, JTB 2015), that are polymorphism-aware
phylogenetic models (PoMo, Schrempf et al., JTB
2016, DeMaio et al., Syst Biol 2015) , and model gene
duplication transfer and loss (DTL, Sz oll osi et al., Syst
Biol 2015; Scornavacca et al., Bioinformatics 2015) for
species tree estimation. We envisage developing new
theory and software to tackle the problem of species
tree estimation and molecular dating genome-wide.
Applications will include mammalian genomes to study
the Cambrian explosion as well as contributions to
international genome consortia.
The postdoc will be based in Vienna. Visits to Budapest
and Aarhus for close collaboration are planned. The
project is funded for three years by Wiener Technology
and Science Fund (WWTF) through the \Maths and
.." Call ( http://www.wwtf.at/programmes/ma/ ). It
also includes a PhD student and a programmer position
that will be advertised separately.122 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Candidates will be expected to have completed a PhD in
Computational Biology, Mathematics, Statistics, Com-
puter Science or a related eld. Prior experience with
either phylogeny, population genetics or comparative
genomics is essential. Preferably the candidate will have
experience in C or C++ and a scripting language such
as Python or Perl.
The position will be hosted by the Institute of Popu-
lation Genetics at the Vetmeduni Vienna. Vienna has
developed into an international center in evolutionary bi-ology (http://www.evolvienna.at, http://www.popgen-
vienna.at/ ). In addition to a stimulating scientic
environment, Vienna is also a quite liveable city with af-
fordable housing, good public transport and an exciting
cultural life.
Please send informal inquires and applications
to Carolin Kosiol ck202@st-andrews.ac.at or car-
olin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at. Deadline for application is
the 15th March.
Carolin Kosiol <carolin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at >
WorkshopsCourses
AuburnU BioinformaticsBootcamp Jun5-9 . . . . . . . .122
Berlin DatavizWithPython Mar13-17 Deadline . . . 123
Berlin Evolution In Cognition July15-19 . . . . . . . . . .124
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Berlin RStatsForBiologists Sep18-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
Berlin TrinityRNAseq Jun12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity Aug28-Sep1 . 129
Boston PlantStructureFunction Jul30-Aug12 . . . . . 129
Cordoba Argentina PhylogeneticComparative Aug1-4
130
Curacao RCourse Jul17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
FreeOnline Biodiversity Feb27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .132
Glasgow ViralBioinformaticsAndGenomics Aug7-11 132
Hungary EvolSexRoles Apr6-9 RegistrationCloses-
ThisWeek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Konstanz AdaptiveEpigenomics Jul24-25 . . . . . . . . . 134
Mariensee Germany SNP DataManagement Apr4-6 135
NordU Norway NGSOfNonModelOrganisms May31-Jun1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
Porto Portugal Metabarcoding May1-5 . . . . . . . . . . . 136
Portugal PopulationGenetics Mar13-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Rosco EcolEvolutionaryGenomics Jun5-16 . . . . . . 137
SwissAlps SexualSelection Aug28-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .138
Switzerland EvolBiol Jun17-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
UAlgarve Portugal FishPopGenomics May8-10 . . . 139
UBirmingham EnvironmentalGenomics Mar5-10 . .140
UCalifornia Davis AppliedPhylogenetics Mar11-18 141
UFlorida Movement May8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
UK AdvancingInRforEvolutionaryBiol Apr24-28 . .142
UK BioinformaticsUsingLinux Oct16-20 . . . . . . . . . . 143
UK RADseqStacks May22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144
UK ShinyAppsForEvolutionaryBiol May15-19 . . . . 145
UMichigan NextProf May2-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution Jul20-30 . . . . . . . . . 146
AuburnU BioinformaticsBootcamp
Jun5-9>From June 5-9, 2017 the College of Sciences and Math-
ematics at Auburn University will host the 4th Annual
Bioinformatics Bootcamp a training workshop in ge-
nomics and computational biology for researchers inter-
ested in working with modern genomic data resources.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 123
The Bootcamp is a week-long immersion experience in
the command line, scripting, data handling and soft-
ware skills required to process and analyze data from
high-throughput sequencing experiments. Previous ex-
perience in bioinformatics is not required; interactive
lectures and group data analysis activities will introduce
participants to best practices in sequencing experiment
design and analysis including widely used methods in
genome and transcriptome assembly, annotation, dier-
ential expression and variant analysis.
Instructors include: Les Goertzen, Scott Santos, Ken
Halanych, Laurie Stevison, Rita Graze, & Jamie Oaks
The 2017 Bootcamp will feature a keynote lecture by Dr.
Nirav Merchant, Director of The Biocomputing Facility
at The University of Arizona.
The Bootcamp registration fee is $500. To apply, send
a brief statement of interest and two-page CV (as
a single pdf) to bioinformatics@auburn.edu by April
15, 2017. Additional information can be found at
auburn.edu/bioinformatics.
Kenneth M. Halanych Schneller Chair, Alumni Profes-
sor Curator of Marine Invertebrates Biological Sciences
Department Life Sciences Bld. 101 Auburn University
Auburn, AL 36849
http://metazoan.auburn.edu/halanych/lab/index.html
Phone: (334)-844-3222 e-mail: ken@auburn.edu
Editor-In-Chief The Biological Bulletin http://-
www.journals.uchicago.edu/toc/bbl/current Kenneth
Halanych<ken@auburn.edu >
Berlin DatavizWithPython
Mar13-17 Deadline
Dear all,
Next week (February 24th 2017) is the registration dead-
line for the Workshop on Data Manipulation and VIsu-
alization with Python.
This course will run from the 13th to 17th March 2017
at the Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum
(BGBM) in Berlin (Germany) http://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses/course10/ .http://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses/course10/ Instructor:
Dr Martin Jones (Founder, Python for Biologists
http://pythonforbiologists.com ) http://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t1/ Course overview:One of the strengths of the Python language is the avail-
ability of mature, high-quality libraries for working with
scientic data. Integration between the most popular
libraries has led to the concept of a \scientic Python
stack": a collection of packages which are designed to
work well together. In this workshop we will see how
to leverage these libraries to eciently work with and
visualize large volumes of data.
Workshop format:
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions.
Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture fol-
lowed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at
the organizer's discretion. Each session uses examples
and exercises that build on material from the previous
one, so it's important that students attend all sessions.
The last two sessions will be kept free for students to
work on their own datasets with the assistance of the
instructor. A description of the sessions can be found
at the bottom of this page.
Who should attend:
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers who are dealing with large datasets and don't
know how to investigate them to make publishable
graphics.
Requirements:
Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics
background to appreciate the example datasets. They
should also have some basic Python experience (the
Introduction to Python course will fulll these require-
ments). Students should be familiar with the use of
lists, loops, functions and conditions in Python and
have written at least a few small programs from scratch.
Students will require the scientic Python stack to be
installed on their laptops before attending; instructions
for this will be sent out prior to the course.
Curriculum
Monday 13th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1 - Introduction and datasets
Jupyter (formerly iPython) is a programming environ-
ment that is rapidly becoming the de facto standard for
scientic data analysis. In this session we'll learn why
Jupyter is so useful, covering its ability to mix notes and
code, to render inline plots, charts and tables, to use
custom styles and to create polished web pages. We'll
also take a look at the datasets that we'll be investigat-
ing during the course and discuss the dierent types of
data we encounter in bioinformatics work.
Session 2 - Introduction to pandas
In this session we introduce the rst part of the scientic124 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Python stack: the pandas data manipulation package.
We'll learn about Dataframes \ the core data structure
that much of the rest of the course will rely on " and
how they allow us to quickly select, sort, lter and sum-
marize large datasets. We'll also see how to extend
existing Dataframes by writing functions to create new
columns, as well as how to deal with common problems
like missing or inconsistent values in datasets. We'll
get our rst look at data visualization by using pandas'
built in plotting ability to investigate basic properties
of our datasets.
Tuesday 14th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3- Grouping and pivoting with pandas
This session continues our look at pandas with advanced
uses of Dataframes that allow us to answer more com-
plicated questions. We'll look two very powerful tools:
grouping, which allows us to aggregate information in
datasets, and pivoting/stacking, which allows us to ex-
ibly rearrange data (a key step in preparing datasets
for visualization). In this session we'll also go into more
detail about pandas indexing system.
Session 4- Advanced manipulation with pandas
In this nal session on the pandas library we'll look at a
few common types of data manipulation \ binning data
(very useful for working with time series), carrying out
principal component analysis, and creating networks.
We'll also cover some features of pandas designed for
working with specic types of data like timestamps and
ordered categories.
Wednesday 15th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 5-Introduction to seaborn
This session introduces the seaborn charting library by
showing how we can use it to investigate relationships
between dierent variables in our datasets. Initially we
concentrate on showing distributions
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlBerlin Evolution In Cognition
July15-19
2nd Evolution in Cognition Workshop to be held as part
of the
2017 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference
(GECCO-2017) July 15-19, Berlin, Germany
Organized by ACM SIGEVO http://gecco-
2017.sigevo.org Webpage: https://sites.google.com/-
champlain.edu/eic2017/ Submission Deadline: March
31st, 2017
=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped
life over billions of years leading to the emergence of com-
plex organism capable of exceptional cognitive abilities.
These natural evolutionary processes have inspired the
development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which
are optimization algorithms widely popular due to their
eciency and robustness. Beyond their ability to opti-
mize, EAs have also proven to be creative and ecient
at generating innovative solutions to novel problems.
The combination of these two abilities makes them a
tool of choice for the resolution of complex problems.
There is evidence that the principle of selection on vari-
ation is at play in the human brain, as proposed in
Changeux's and Edelman's models of Neuronal Darwin-
ism, and more recently properly reformulated in the
theory of the Neuronal Replicators. Consequently, the
idea of an interaction between evolutionary processes
and cognition over physiological time scales has been
gaining some traction. Since the development of hu-
man cognition requires years of maturation, it can be
expected that articial cognitive agents will also require
months if not years of learning and adaptation. It is in
this context that the optimizing and creative abilities of
EAs could become an ideal framework that complement,
aid in understanding, and facilitate the implementation
of cognitive processes. Additionally, a better under-
standing of how evolution can be implemented as part
of an articial cognitive architecture can lead to new
insights into cognition in humans and other animals.
The goals of the workshop are to depict the current
state of the art of evolution in cognition and to sketch
the main challenges and future directions. In particular,
we aim at bringing together the dierent theoretical and
empirical approaches that can potentially contributeMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 125
to the understanding of how evolution and cognition
can act together in an algorithmic way in order to solve
complex problems. In this workshop we welcome ap-
proaches that contribute to an improved understanding
of evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico
computation as well as mathematical models.
Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cog-
nition, Darwinian Neurodynamics, Neuronal Darwis-
nism, robotics.
=== Invited speakers = - Prof. Eors Szathmary - Ad-
ditional invited speakers will be announced in the near
future.
=== Organizers = - Prof. Stephane Doncieux, Uni-
versity Pierre and Marie Curie, France - Dr. Joshua
Auerbach, Champlain College^ a euro ^A - Prof. Richard
Duro, Universidade da Coruna, Spain - Dr. Harold P.
de Vladar, iASK Institute of Advanced Studies K ~A'szeg,
Hungary
=== Submissions and deadlines submissions: - Original:
experimental work, position papers as well as overviews
of author's recent work are all welcome. These sub-
missions will be included in the proceedings and be
presented during the workshop - Abstracts submitted
as poster to GECCO 2017: the authors of selected ab-
stracts will be given a talk. The abstract won't be
included in the proceedings. - Hot-of-the-press: authors
can submit a recently published work. Selected articles
will be given a talk.
Submission: extended abstracts (2-4 pages) and long
papers (8 pages) are accepted. They should follow ACM
template and should be sent in electronic form (pdf) to
eicws@isir.upmc.fr:
- March, 31st, 2017: Papers Submission Deadline - April,
14th, 2017: Notication of Acceptance - April, 21th,
2016: Camera-Ready Paper Submission - July 15 or
16th, 2017: Workshop
GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Comput-
ing Machinery Special Interest Group on Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO). SIG Services: 2
Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121, USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500
(Global).
Stephane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and
Harold P. de Vladar
Dr. Harold P. de Vladar Senior Researcher
Centre for Cooperation and Conict in Evolutionary
Systems iASK Institute of Advanced Studies K ~A'szeg
Chernel utca 14 H-9730 K ~A'szeg Hungary
hpvladar.wordpress.com www.iask.hu/-en www.parmenides-foundation.org
harold.vladar@parmenides-foundation.org
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin Metabarcoding Apr3-7 3
Dear all,
There are the last 2 places left for the \16S rRNA
gene Metabarcoding" workshop, 3-7 April 2017 in
Berlin (Germany).https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses/course8/ Registration deadline: March 3rd,
2017
Instructor: Dr. Alexandre de Menezes (National
University of Ireland Galway) https://www.physalia-
courses.org/instructors/t5/ Course overview
The 16s rRNA gene has become the standard marker for
prokaryote phylogenetic analysis, and combined with
high-throughput sequencing technologies it is widely
used to infer the structure and composition of microbial
communities. Due to the continuous improvements in
sequencing technologies and bioinformatics tools, there
is a wide choice of methods for sequencing and analysing
16S rRNA gene assemblies. This workshop is designed
to give students the necessary background and prac-
tical experience of the strategies for the analysis of
the diversity and structure of prokaryote communities,
covering i) experimental design and primer choices; ii)
wet-lab and library preparation options; iii) sequence
quality control and analysis and iv) statistical analysis
of microbial community data. The many sequencing
and analysis options will be discussed, whereas a more
in-depth tutorial using real sequence data will provide
an opportunity for the student to practice 16S rRNA
sequence analysis from raw sequence les to ecological
interpretation. Course material, such as presentation
slides and necessary model data, will be provided to the
students.
Targeted audience and assumed background
This workshop is intended for students and researchers
interested in microbial ecology but who are not yet very
familiar with the techniques involved. Choosing the ap-
propriate primers, library preparation kits, sequencing126 EvolDir March 1, 2017
methodologies and bioinformatics pipelines can be quite
daunting to the uninitiated. This workshop will allow
researchers interested more condence in their method-
ology and analyses choices. The target audience include
students of animal or plant microbiomes as well as those
studying environmental microbial communities. It is
assumed that the workshop attendees are interested in
performing 16S rRNA metabarcoding using the Illumina
MiSeq platform, although other sequencing technologies
will be discussed during the workshop.
Knowledge of Linux and R or familiarity with work-
ing in the command line will be helpful, but for those
new to the area detailed instructions will allow stu-
dents to follow the workshop. Students will need to
have a computer running either on Linux or a Linux
virtual machine running on MacOX/Windows com-
puters. Contact the instructor at ademez@gmail.com
mailto:ademez@gmail.com if in doubt about computa-
tional requirements.
Workshop structure
The workshop will consist of both lectures and practical
classes. Background information will be provided to
help workshop attendees choose the appropriate experi-
mental design, primers, sequencing library preparation
kits and to contextualise the bioinformatics and sta-
tistical analysis methods. Practical tutorials will be
conducted on a step-by-step basis to guide the student
from when receiving data from a sequence provider to ob-
taining plots and tables describing microbial community
diversity, structure and relationships to environmental
variables or host data.
Venue
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Session contents
Monday 3rd-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00
Session 1: the 16S rRNA gene
The use of the 16S rRNA gene as a marker for prokary-
ote phylogenetics will be discussed to introduce the
students to the concept of conserved and hypervariable
regions. The student will learn about the history of this
molecular marker and why it is the choice for prokaryote
diversity studies. The primer combinations used to tar-
get the dierent hypervariable regions will be discussed,
as well as what is known regarding their advantages
and disadvantages. The pros and cons of PCR-based
16S rRNA gene sequencing versus PCR-free shot-gun
metagenomics will also be discussed.
This session will also include an overview of current se-quencing technologies, and the Illumina MiSeq platform
will be contrasted with other sequencing technologies
(Ion Torrent, MinIon, PacBio and Moleculo).
Session 2: sequencing experimental design and initial
hands-on exercises
Focusing on the MiSeq platform, experimental design
considerations will be discussed and topics discussed
will include sequence depth, replication, contamination
and the use of appropriate controls and mock communi-
ties. Other topics that will be taught include: metadata
collection, DNA extraction and RNA-cDNA sequenc-
ing. Demo sequence data will be used to check that the
appropriate tools are installed correctly
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin RStatsForBiologists Sep18-23
STATISTICS FOR BIOLOGISTS USING R
18-23 September 2017 in Berlin, Germany (https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course13/).
Instructor: Dr. Ken Aho (Idaho State University;
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t4/).
Course overview
This course will demonstrate the extensive capabilities
of the R environment, and seek to develop/broaden the
competency of participants in the use of R statistical
applications. The course will have two components pre-
sented in morning and afternoon sessions over ve days.
Component one (Monday Sept. 18, Tuesday Sept. 19)
will emphasize R programming characteristics including
data management, use of existing package functions,
graphics, customized function writing, calling routines
from compiled languages, and documentation. The sec-
ond component (Wednesday Sept. 20 - Friday Sept. 22)
will address implementation of statistical analyses with
R, particularly linear models. The materials will be pre-
sented using biological examples, making frequent use
of the library asbio (Applied Statistics and Statistical
Pedagogy for Biologists).
Intended audience
This course is aimed at scientists, particularly biologists.March 1, 2017 EvolDir 127
While no previous experience with R is required, par-
ticipants should have at least a basic familiarity with
statistical terms and concepts.
Venue
Potsdamer Strae 98a, 10785 Berlin.
Curriculum
Monday 18th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1 - R basics In this session we will briey con-
sider the history of R, including trends in usage and
package development, the relationship of R to other
languages and platforms, and the reliability of R base
and user-contributed packages. We will then learn and
conduct basic command line operations, including den-
ing R programming options, saving work, mathematical
functions, simple descriptive statistics functions, uti-
lization of expressions and assignments, R-objects and
classes, auxiliary R-packages, accessing and exploring
internal R datasets, and getting help.
Session 2 - R graphics In this session we consider the
properties, capabilities, and extensions of R graphics.
Session topics will include discussion of the R graphi-
cal devices, learning how to alter parameters to make
simple plots and multilayer complex plots (e.g., those
containing multiple distinct graphs, multiple y and x-
axes, unusual fonts, 3d graphics, etc.), lattice graphics,
graphical packages (particularly ggplot) and the creation
of publication-ready high resolution gures.
Tuesday 19th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3 - Handling data in R The session will address
handling data in R. Topics will include properties of R
data structures (i.e., vectors, matrices, dataframes, and
arrays), command line data entry, importing/exporting
delimited spreadsheets and other data, subsetting and
querying data, testing and coercing objects, pattern
matching, and functions for matrix/dataframe/array
management and manipulation.
Session 4 - Writing functions The session will consider
user-dened functions using several extended examples.
Topics will include looping, graphical animation, the uti-
lization and development of GUIs, and calling routines
from compiled languages.
Wednesday 20th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 5 - Documentation of work in R and basic ap-
plications in statistics This session will conclude topics
in function writing by considering approaches for doc-
umenting workow and function characteristics in R.
The session will then turn to the topic of statistical
analysis in earnest. Topics will include probability den-
sity functions, point estimation (including least squares,maximum likelihood and MOM approaches), and in-
tervallic estimators, including conventional condence
intervals on a priori sampling distribution assumptions,
along with bootstrapping approaches and Bayesian cred-
ible intervals.
Session 6 - General linear models I We will begin this
session by considering simple methods for making in-
ferences concerning the dierence in measures of popu-
lation location parameters, e.g., t-tests and their non-
parametric analogues. We will then introduce general
linear models with simple and multiple regression. Em-
phasis will be given to model selection approaches.
Thursday 21st - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 7 - General linear models II
This session will continue exploration of general linear
models by considering ANOVA approaches including
one way ANOVAs with xed and random eects, two
way designs including factorial designs and blocked de-
signs as xed and mixed eect models. We will also
consider methods for simultaneous inference for factor
level comparisons.
Session 8 - Generalized linear models, locally tted
models, and associated topics This session will briey
consider R applications for specialized response variables
and locally tted models. Topics
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin TrinityRNAseq Jun12-16
Using the Trinity Framework for De novo Transcrip-
tome Assembly, Annotation, and Downstream Expres-
sion Studies
June 12-16, 2017, Berlin (Germany)
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course11/
Instructors:
Brian Haas http://www.physalia-courses.org/-
instructors/t12/ (Senior Computational Biologist at
the Broad Institute)
Timothy Tickle http://www.physalia-courses.org/-
instructors/t13/ (Senior Software Engineer at the Broad
Institute)128 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Course Overview:
RNA-Seq technology has been transformative in our abil-
ity to explore gene content and gene expression in all
realms of biology, and de novo transcriptome assembly
has enabled opportunities to expand transcriptome anal-
ysis to non-model organisms. This workshop provides
an overview of modern applications of transcriptome
sequencing and popular tools and algorithms for explor-
ing transcript reconstruction and expression analysis
in a genome-free manner, leveraging the Trinity soft-
ware and analysis framework. Attendees will perform
quality assessment of Illumina RNA-Seq data, assem-
ble a transcriptome using Trinity, quantify transcript
expression, leverage Bioconductor tools for dierential
expression analysis, and apply Trinotate to functionally
annotate transcripts. Additional methods will be ex-
plored for characterizing the assembled transcriptome
and revealing biological ndings.
Intended Audience:
This workshop is aimed primarily at biologist researchers
that have basic bioinformatics skills and are pursuing
RNA-Seq projects in non-model organisms. Attendees
will gain skills needed to successfully approach tran-
scriptome sequencing, de novo transcriptome assembly,
expression analysis, and functional annotation as applied
to organisms lacking a high quality reference genome
sequence.
Teaching format:
The workshop will be delivered over the course of four
and a half days, with each session entailing lectures
followed by practical hands-on sessions. Most all com-
puting will be done on the cloud and attendees will use
their own laptop computers with the Google Chrome
web browser providing all the necessary interfaces to
the cloud computing environment, including the linux
command terminal.
Assumed background for the participants:
Basic experience with Linux command-line execution
and execution of bioinformatics tools would be helpful.
We will begin the course with a review of basic linux
commands and operations as a refresher. No program-
ming or scripting knowledge is required.
Venue:
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM)
Berlin-Dahlem, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-
Strae 6-8, 14195 Berlin.
Curriculum:
Day 1: Intro to the Trinity RNA-Seq workshop
* Intro to RNA-Seq * Intro to next-gen sequence analysis* Overview of unix and workshop setup o Practical: ex-
ploring the computational infrastructure * Read quality
assessment and trimming o Practical: using FASTQC
and TRIMMOMATIC
Day 2: Trinity de novo assembly, expression quantita-
tion, and assembly QC
* Overview of Trinity de novo transcriptome assembly o
Practical: assemble rna-seq data using Trinity * Intro
to expression quantication using RNA-Seq o Practical:
quantify expression for Trinity assembly * Initial data
exploration: assembly quality, and QC samples and
replicates o Practical: using IGV o Practical: replicate
correlation matrix and PCA
Day 3: Dierential expression analysis
* Overview of statistical methods for dierential expres-
sion (DE). o Practical: using Bioconductor tools for DE
analysis. * Transcript clustering and expression pro-
ling o Practical: generating heatmaps and extracting
transcript clusters.
Day 4: Functional annotation and Functional enrich-
ment studies
* Overview of methods for functional annotation o Prac-
tical: applying Trinotate to nd coding regions in tran-
scripts and predict biological function. * Overview of
functional enrichment analysis o Practical: applying
GOseq to identify signicantly enriched Gene Ontology
categories among transcript clusters.
Day 5: Review and custom data analyses
Further information:
There two packages available: 1) \only-course" costs
530 euros (VAT included), which includes refreshments
and course material; 2) \all-inclusive" costs 795 euros
(VAT included), which includes refreshments, course ma-
terial, accommodation in double shared double rooms
and meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner).
Application deadline is the 12th of May 2017 (8 places
left; rst come, rst served)
{
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses Coordinator
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 129
Blossin InsectEvolutionaryImmunity
Aug28-Sep1
***OUR WEBSITE IS WORKING PROPERLY
AGAIN***
We had a few issues with our website which are now
resolved and all information on our workshop can be
found via the following link: http://rolevolution.net/-
ecological-immunology-workshop-2017/ Ecological Im-
munology Workshop 2017 on:
'Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications'
28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to
Berlin), Germany.
This workshop will bring together researchers interested
in ecological immunology with a focus on insects, and
with diverse scientic backgrounds ranging from molecu-
lar biology to ecology. The hallmark of these workshops,
started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering free
exchange by keeping it an aordable, small conference
(100 participants). The format consists of eighteen in-
vited speakers, contributed talks and a dedicated poster.
Long breaks provide plenty of opportunity for informal
exchange. Past workshops have initiated new collabo-
rations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has
not been published. The premises are basic but in a
beautiful location conducive to the success of the meet-
ing. We will be located at a lakeside, which at this time
of the year oers great swimming and canoeing, and a
small private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de]
. Registration fee includes accommodation and catering
(all meals): https://goo.gl/forms/Rtz3ngliH3ZnGvyD2
Important dates The deadline for abstract submission
of oral and poster presentations is 28th February 2017
Registration closes at the latest on 31st March 2017 or
when the maximum number or possible participants is
reached, i.e. 100 persons. Final programme announce-
ment is 31st July 2017.
Program and invited speakers
Genomics and functional work in the wild Seth Bar-
ribeau, University of Liverpool Nicole Gerardo, Emory
University Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University Hinrich
Schulenburg, University of Kiel Ann Tate, University
of Texas Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu Chris
Wheat, University of Stockholm
Host-symbiont interactions aecting host immunityNichole Broderick, University of Connecticut Ewa
Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology Ellen Decaesteker, Uni-
versity of Leuven Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon Martin
Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz David Schneider, Stan-
ford University
Applying ecological immunology Lena Bayer-Wilfert,
University of Essex Astrid Groot, University of Amster-
dam Dino McMahon, Free University Berlin Brian Weiss,
Yale University Ken Wilson, University of Lancaster
We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecolog-
ical Immunology Workshop 2017.
Kind regards,
Organizing Committee Jens Rol, Free University of
Berlin Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth Paul Schmid-
Hempel, ETH Zurich Magdalena Nagel, Free University
of Berlin
If you have any questions concerning the meeting please
do not hesitate to e-mail us: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de
(program) magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and reg-
istration)
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal
Ecology I University of Bayreuth Universit atsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth Germany
phone: +49921552646 e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-
bayreuth.de
Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de >
Boston PlantStructureFunction
Jul30-Aug12
microMORPH& Arnold Arboretum Summer Course
2017 - Plant Anatomy: Development, Function, and
Evolution
Thistwo-week short course (July 30th - August 12th,
2017) will be taught by experts from around the world
as an intense lecture, laboratory, and living collections
learning experience. The course will be based at the
Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arboretum in
Boston (Massachusetts), which oers a state-of-the-art
microscopy laboratory for teaching and sits amid the
15,000+ living specimens of more than 2,200 species at
the Arnold Arboretum.
Thiscourse will provide a working knowledge of tools
and concepts that are central to understanding the
anatomical basis for structural and functional diversity.130 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Topics include the anatomy of the primary plant body,
anatomy throughout plant development, evolutionary
trends in plant anatomy, and the anatomy and diversity
of secondary/woody growth. Each day will consist of
lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample opportunity
to explore the Arnold Arboretum.
Thereare no course fees, and funds are available to help
defray costs of participant travel.
CourseInstructors: Pieter Baas (Naturalis Biodiversity
Center), Pamela Diggle (University of Connecticut),
William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University), Peter
Gasson (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew), Cynthia Jones
(University of Connecticut), Elisabeth Wheeler (North
Carolina State University).
ApplicationDeadline: Applications must be sub-
mitted by 11:30 pm April 15th, 2017. Ap-
plication instructions are available on the course
website: http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph/-
summer-course-2017 Eligibility:microMORPH summer
short courses are open to postdoctoral researchers, grad-
uate students, and undergraduates in their nal year of
study (who have been admitted to a graduate or pro-
fessional program for the fall of 2017). Non-US-citizens
are welcome to apply (but are responsible for obtaining
the appropriate visa to be able to attend the course).
Howto Apply: For full application instructions (includ-
ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website (http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).
Questionsor Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at RCN-
micromorph@gmail.com, and visit our website at http:/-
/projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph . PamelaDiggle
Professor Departmentof Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Universityof Connecticut
860-486-4788
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Cordoba Argentina
PhylogeneticComparative Aug1-4
This is an announcement of a course on phylogenetic
comparative methods to be taught in C ordoba, Ar-
gentina in August. The English version of the announce-
ment can be found below the Spanish version of the ad.
The announcement can also be viewed online at the fol-
lowing URL: http://www.phytools.org/Cordoba2017/-ad/ .
||||||||||||||
Curso de macroevoluci on y uso de m etodos logen eticos
comparativos en R
Nos complace anunciar un nuevo curso intensivo, con
modalidad de taller, destinado a estudiantes graduados
/ de posgrado, acerca del uso de m etodos logen eticos
comparativos en R. Estos m etodos tienen muchas y
diversas aplicaciones en estudios macroevolutivos. El
curso ser a gratuito, tendr a una duraci on de cuatro d as,
y se dictar a en la Universidad Nacional de C ordoba,
Argentina, entre los d as 1 y 4 de agosto de 2017. Este
curso estar a parcialmente nanciado por la National
Science Foundation (Estados Unidos), y contar a con
el apoyo adicional de la University of Massachusetts
Boston y de la Universidad Nacional de C ordoba. El
nanciamiento cubrir a los costos de los pasajes de avi on
y del alojamiento de los alumnos que sean aceptados
en el curso, si bien la totalidad de la cobertura podr a
sujetarse a cambios, dependiendo de la localizaci on ge-
ogr aca de los postulantes seleccionados.
El curso se encuentra destinado a estudiantes avanzados,
estudiantes de doctorado en ciencias biol ogicas o car-
reras anes, investigadores y profesionales interesados
en la tem atica. Recibiremos solicitudes de cualquier
pa s; sin embargo anticipamos que los postulantes su-
damericanos y de otros pa ses latinoamericanos con-
stituir an la mayor a de los estudiantes admitidos al
programa. Los estudiantes provenientes de pa ses m as
lejanos que resulten elegidos tendr an la posibilidad de
recibir ~Aonicamente apoyo parcial para costear sus gas-
tos del viaje. Adem as, es posible que los estudiantes
provenientes de ciudades argentinas accesibles a C ordoba
mediante bus (distancias menos de <700 km) reciban
~Aonicamente apoyo nanciero para el alojamiento. Para
estudiantes argentinos, el curso se encontrar a avalado
por el Doctorado en Ciencias Biol ogicas de la Universi-
dad Nacional de C ordoba y tendr a una duraci on de 32
horas.
Los temas que ser an discutidos en el curso incluyen:
una introducci on al ambiente computacional de R, ma-
nipulaci on de  arboles logen eticos, m nimos cuadrados
generalizados en un contexto logen etico, reconstrucci on
de estados ancestrales, modelos evolutivos de rasgos,
an alisis de diversicaci on logen etica, y visualizaci on de
logenias y datos comparativos, entre otros. El curso
estar a a cargo de los instructores Dr. Liam Revell (Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Boston), Dr. Luke Harmon
(University of Idaho), y Dr. Mike Alfaro (University
of California, Los Angeles), cont andose con la posible
participaci on de instructores adicionales. El Dr. Santi-
ago Benitez-Vieyra (Universidad Nacional de C ordoba
- CONICET) y la Dra. Marina Strelin (UniversidadMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 131
Nacional del Comahue - CONICET) ser an los coordi-
nadores de este curso.
El curso ser a dictado principalmente en ingl es; sin em-
bargo, algunos de los instructores, coordinadores, y
ayudantes de ense nanza del curso hablan espa nol uido.
Las discusiones, los ejercicios, y las actividades del curso
se har an en espa nol e ingl es.
Los interesados en solicitar la admisi on deber an enviar
su curr culum vitae y una descripci on corta (1 p agina)
de sus intereses cient cos, experiencia, y razones por las
cuales quieren tomar el curso. El proceso de admisi on
ser a competitivo, y se dar a preferencia a estudiantes con
conocimientos de logen etica y que est en desarrollando
investigaciones relacionadas a los temas del curso. Se
espera que todos los estudiantes tengan un nivel b asico
de ingl es cient co. En la solicitud debe indicarse el
aeropuerto de viaje preferido (si aplica). Las solicitudes
pueden estar escritas en ingl es o en espa nol y deben
ser enviadas por email a cordoba@phytools.org antes
del 1 abril de 2017. Preguntas adicionales pueden ser
dirigidas al Dr. Liam Revell (liam.revell@umb.edu) o a
la Dra. Marina Strelin (marina.strelin85@gmail.com).
|{
Intensive short course on macroevolution and phyloge-
netic comparative methods in R
We are pleased to announce a new graduate-level in-
tensive short course on the use of R for phylogenetic
comparative analysis and downstream implementation
in macroevolutionary studies. The course will be four
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Curacao RCourse Jul17-21
Dear evoldir members,
Please see below regarding an R course that some of
you may be interested in:
A gentle introduction to R for the biological sciences July
17th-21st, 2017, Willemstad (Curacao) Delivered by
Dr. Dan Warren http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/statistics/gentle-introducti on-r-biological-
sciences/This 5-day course will introduce students to the R sta-
tistical programming environment. The main learning
objective of the course is to give students a basic skill set
and familiarity with several of the most used packages in
the biological sciences. It is intended primarily for users
who have no experience in R, or who have performed
a few basic functions but wish to develop their skills.
This course is not aimed at students with extensive
experience in R and it will not cover the theory behind
the ana lyses implemented.
A typical day of the course will include step-by-step
examination of pre-worked code examples as well as
hands-on live-coding, so that students develop their
skills through interacting with R directly. Students
will learn to read in data, conduct common analyses,
and produce publication-quality plots and reports. The
students will also work independently on conducting
analyses in order to produce a nal project using avail-
able data provided by the course organisers.
Programme: Monday, July 17th, 2017. Intro to R. *
Introduction to the R statistical programming environ-
ment. * Introduction to R Studio. * Interacting with
the console. * Working with variables. * Basic plots
using qplot. * Reading data les. * Writing data les.
* Working with tables, data frames, and lists.
Tuesday, July 18th, 2017. Improving workow and or-
ganization. * Scripts. * Commenting your code. *
Functions. * Control ow. * What to do when your
code isn't working.
Wednesday, July 19th, 2017. Taking R to the next level.
* R packages. * Project organization. * Version control.
* R Markdown.
Thursday, July 20th, 2017. Making it pretty. * Intro-
duction to ggplot2. * What's in a ggplot object. * Basic
plot types. * Customizing your plot. * Creating and
using themes. * Using extensions.
Friday, July 21st, 2017. Problem solving / nal project.
* T-test and linear models. * Looking for help online. *
Bringing it all together in a nal project.
For more information, please visit http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/statistics/-
gentle-intr oduction-r-biological-sciences/ Contact:
courses.curacao@transmittingscience.org
Haris Saslis, PhD Course Coordinator Trans-
mitting Science www.transmittingscience.org
haris.saslis@transmittingscience.org132 EvolDir March 1, 2017
FreeOnline Biodiversity Feb27
Dear Evoldir members,
you or your students and postdocs or even family mem-
bers and friends might be interested in a new free online
course for anyone who wants to learn about biodiversity
science or help protect biodiversity.
Prof. Owen Petchey and I (Susanne Schulmeister) have
created a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) called
\Biodiversity and Global Change: Science & Action". It
is produced by the University of Zurich in Switzerland
and oered by Coursera.
The 42 short video lectures are about biodiversity, biodi-
versity science, global change including climate change,
and conservation, and are taught by 24 scientists of
the University of Zurich. So this course is also a good
way to get informed about some of the research being
done in the Department of Evolutionary Biology and
Environmental Studies (IEU) of UZH.
Watching the videos and doing the assessments is free.
This is called auditing the course. If you want to take
part in the two assignments and get a certicate at the
end of the course, there is a small fee.
The ocial launch of our MOOC is February 27. This is
when the course material will become visible to enrolled
participants and when we want the learners to start
introducing themselves. The rst session of the course
begins March 6 and ends April 30 (though you could
take it at a dierent pace).
It takes about 1-2 hours per week to watch the videos
and to do the assessments and assignments. All videos
and course materials are in English. Videos have subti-
tles in English and can be viewed at slower (or faster)
speed if desired.
You can nd more information and sign up for the course
here: https://www.coursera.org/learn/biodiversity/ {
rst register for Coursera, then enroll for the course.
Feel free to contact me via email to susanne.schulmeister
(at) ieu.uzh.ch
On a personal note: since my engagement with this
project will end at the end of June, I am currently look-
ing for future employment. I am interested in project
management of research or eLearning (= online teaching)
projects, mainly in my favorite topics biology, climate
change, health (medical science), and nutrition and amhappy to act as consultant on MOOC projects. I am
open to relocating to dierent parts of the world :-)
Cheers,
Susanne
Dr. Susanne Schulmeister University instructor and
project manager University of Zurich Department of
Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies
suzanne123@gmail.com
Glasgow
ViralBioinformaticsAndGenomics
Aug7-11
Training course on Viral Bioinformatics and Genomics
MRC - University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research,
United Kingdom
Monday 7th - Friday 11th August 2017 Application
deadline 30th April 2017 Cost 500
We will be running our Viral Bioinformatics and Ge-
nomics course again this year, from Monday 7th|
August to Friday 11th|August. Applications for
the course are now open, full details on the course
and information on how to apply can be found at:|
www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk The 5-day course consists
of a series of lectures and practical exercises that directly
address bioinformatics challenges posed by the current
surge of sequence data, with a focus on viral data sets
and analyses. We will enable participants to under-
stand and deal with high- throughput sequence datasets
and encourage the exchange of ideas among diagnos-
ticians, virologists, bioinformaticians and evolutionary
biologists.
The 2017 course will introduce participants to the power
of the UNIX command- line and bash scripts, as well
as a suite of bioinformatics tools covering the following
topics:
- HTS sequencing technologies:|overview of the dif-
ferent HTS platforms and sample preparations. - The
power of Unix:|essential bash scripting. - Reference
assembly:|aligning sequence reads to a known refer-
ence and visualizing the alignment (e.g. bowtie2, BWA,
Tanoti, Tablet, UGENE). - Variant calling:|consensus
sequence generation, low frequency variant calling and
error correction (e.g. samtools, LoFreq, DiversiTools). -
De-novo assembly:|overlap layout and de Bruijn graphs
approaches for sequence assembly, quality assessmentMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 133
and merging contigs (e.g. ABySS, SPAdes, MIRA,
IDBA-UD, QUAST, Mauve). - Metagenomic analyses:|
sanitizing sequence datasets, assembling, annotating, vi-
sualizing (e.g. MetAMOS, Krona, DIAMOND, Kraken).
- Genomics: scaolding, improving and nishing the as-
sembly, gene annotation (e.g. ICORN, Artemis, RATT).
- Phylogenetic analysis: introduction to multiple se-
quence alignment and phylogenetic reconstruction (e.g.
mat, PhyML, FigTree).
The course will be held at the Centre for Virus Re-
search, Garscube Campus, University of Glasgow, UK.
The CVR has been designated an World Organisation
for Animal Health (OIE) Collaborating Centre for Viral
Genomics and Bioinformatics at the 82nd OIE General
Session.|
www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk Dr. Richard Orton 117
Sir Michael Stoker Building MRC - University of Glas-
gow Centre for Virus Research 464 Bearsden Road Glas-
gow G61 1QH
E: Richard.Orton@glasgow.ac.uk T: 0141 330 4019
Richard Orton <Richard.Orton@glasgow.ac.uk >
Hungary EvolSexRoles Apr6-9
RegistrationClosesThisWeek
Workshop on EVOLUTION OF SEX ROLES - 6-9 April
2017 - Tihany (Hungary)
Dear Colleagues
This week is the registration deadline for the Workshop
on the EVOLUTION OF SEX ROLES, and we only
have a small number of places left.
Please see further details at http://-
www.congressline.hu/evolution2017/ Best wishes,
Tamas Szekely on behalf of organisers
From: Tamas Szekely Sent: 17 January 2017
09:50 To: 'evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA'
<evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA >Subject: Work-
shop: Hungary. Sex role evolution. April 2017
WORKSHOP INVITATION SEX-ROLE EVOLUTION:
INTEGRATING NEURAL, BEHAVIOURAL AND
PHYLOGENETIC APPROACHES
We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will
take place between 6th April 2017 and 9th April 2017 in
Tihany, Hungary. The event will start with wine-tastingon Thursday 6 April, will include 2 full days for research
talks by top scientists, post-docs and students, and
an optional excursion on Sunday to a hot spa (Heviz)
and/or the historic Festetics Palace in Keszthely.
Theoretical, experimental, phylogenetic, demographic
and neuro-genomic studies of sexual selection, mating
systems, pair-bonding, parenting and reproductive be-
haviours are rapidly advancing. The objectives of the
workshop are to overview recent developments in sex
roles and associated behaviours, and allow scientists
and students to develop new ideas. The Workshop
will take place at the guesthouse of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences at Lake Balaton. The guest-
house oers a great venue for up to 60 participants,
see www.blki.hu/vendeghaz/index en.html Balaton is a
major tourist destination in Central Europe (see http:/-
/balaton.gotohungary.com/), and the Workshop will be
before the peak tourist season; so we'll have all the
scenery, folklore and tradition without the crowd. Bala-
ton is one of the best wine-growing regions in Hungary
famous for white wines including the Szurkebarat and
Juhfark.
The Workshop will focus on three main themes: (i) be-
havioural variations in sex roles and their ecological and
demographic causes, (ii) phylogenetic analyses of sex
role variations, and (iii) neuro-genomic regulation of sex
roles.
In each theme there will be seminars by invited speakers
and contributions by young scientists, post-docs and
PhD students. We will also discuss the future of sex
role research: what are the outstanding questions, what
techniques will need to be developed, and how should
the eld as such develop. The combination of dier-
ent research skills and variety of model organisms will
provide outstanding opportunities to synthesize major
research directions.
Conrmed invited speakers include:
1. Variations in sex roles
Professor Franjo Weissing
University of Groningen, Groningen
Dr Franziska Lemmel-Schadelin
University of Veterinarian Medicine, Vienna
Dr Lutz Fromhage
University of Jyvaskyla, Jyveskyla
Professor Wolfgang Goymann
Max Planck Institute, Radolfzell
Professor Jan Komdeur
University of Groningen, Groningen134 EvolDir March 1, 2017
2. Phylogenetic approach to sex roles
Dr Laszlo Garamszegi
Donana Biological Station, Sevilla
Dr Elina Immonen
University of Uppsala, Uppsala
Professor Jean-Michael Gaillard
CNRS-University of Lyon, Lyon
Dr Veronika Bokony
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest
3. Neuro-genomic regularion of sex roles
Dr Dora Zelena
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest
Dr Araxi Urrutia
University of Bath, Bath
Dr Clemens Kupper
Max Planck Institute, Seewiesen
Professor Hans Hofmann
University of Texas, Austin
Registration fee that includes the welcome wine-tasting
on Thursday and the farewell dinner on Saturday will
be 80 EUR for students and 125 EUR for non-students.
Accommodation will be around 25 EUR per night in
shared rooms, and 30-40 EUR per night in single rooms
or apartments. Lunch and dinner will be around 10-15
EUR per meal.
Spaces are limited to 60 and we will give priority to
students oering a talk. This will be an excellent train-
ing opportunity for young scientists, and we encourage
senior scientists to bring along their students and post-
docs. We recommend registering early, since spaces will
rapidly ll up.
Application deadline: Friday, 17 February 2017. Regis-
tration will be available soon on the workshop website.
For scientic details feel free contacting one of the or-
ganisers. For administrative questions and further infor-
mation on the venue, please, contact Bea Golovanova,
CongressLine Ltd. Address: Revay koz 2, H-1065 Bu-
dapest, Hungary. Phone: + 36 1 429 0146. E-mail:
golob@congressline.hu
This will be a family-friendly event so do consider bring-
ing along your family. CongressLine Ltd will be glad to
accommodate individual requests so that you'll benet
from the o-season prices around Balaton.
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Konstanz AdaptiveEpigenomics
Jul24-25
We would like to welcome you to join a two-day in-
terdisciplinary workshop on \Adaptive Epigenomics:
Building a bridge between animal and human research"
hosted Prof. Thomas Elbert and Prof. Axel Meyer
and sponsored by the Hector Fellowship Academy. The
workshop will be held in Konstanz, Germany, from July
24-25, 2017, and is organized by Dr. Amber Makowicz
(post-doc research with Dr. Meyer), Daniela Conrad
(PhD student with Dr. Elbert) and Maggie Sefton (PhD
student with Dr. Meyer).
The goal of this 2-day workshop is to provide theoreti-
cal input on epigenetics as an evolutionary component
and important mechanism in the development of (psy-
cho)pathologies and evolutionary adaptations. In ad-
dition, providing explanations on the processing and
statistical evaluation of epigenetic data, including hands-
on exercises of small pseudo-datasets. The workshop
shall furthermore represent a platform for the interdis-
ciplinary exchange between biologists and psychologists
using epigenetic approaches to investigate the biological
underpinnings of (pathological) behavior and adapta-
tion.
Conrmed speakers include:
- Dr. Tuncay Baubec is an SNF Professor in the De-
partment of Molecular Mechanisms of Disease at the
University of Zurich.
- Dr. Vanja Vukojevic is a postdoc in the Department
of Molecular Neurosciences at the University of Basel.
- Dr. Bridgett vonHoldt is a professor in the Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology Department at Princeton Uni-
versity.
- Dr. Robert Philibert runs the Psychiatric Genetics lab
at the University of Iowa.
- Dr. Tomas Marques-Bonet leads the research group
on comparative genomics at Universitat Pompeu Fabra.
We welcome any Masters and PhD students, postdocs,
and any other young scientists in the elds of evolution-
ary biology and psychology to join us. Registration feesMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 135
include a social dinner on a boat on Lake Konstanz (July
24th), and farewell dinner at the Hotel St. Elisabeth in
Hegne (July 25th). Registration deadline for earlier-bird
rate (50 euro) is March 31st and for the normal rate
(100 euro) is May 31st. Space is limited to 35 people,
so please register as soon as possible.
Accommodations can be found at the Hotel St. Elis-
abeth, however, these rooms book rapidly and will re-
quire you to book well in advance (www.st-elisabeth-
hegne.de/en/hotel.html). Other accommodations can
be found in Konstanz with direct train connection to
Hegne ( ~10-12 min ride).
Konstanz is a cozy town in the south of Germany, lo-
cated near the border to Switzerland. With direct access
to beautiful Lake Konstanz and its historical old town
it is a favorite holiday destination for locals and interna-
tional tourists. Furthermore, the University of Konstanz
is one of the highest-ranking German universities. For
many years, the University of Konstanz belongs to the
German Universities Excellence Initiative, and is host
to a large, international body of students from various
elds.
Any questions in regards to the workshop
can be found on our website (http://adaptive-
epigenomics.weebly.com/) or emailed to epigenetics-
workshop@uni-konstanz.de or directly to Amber
Makowicz at amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de
Many thanks for your assistance.
Cheers, Amber { Amber M. Makowicz, Ph.D.
Hector Postdoctoral Fellow Room M821 Biology De-
partment Lehrstuhl f ur Zoologie und Evolutionsbiologie,
University Konstanz, Universit atsstra ^I2e 10, 78457 Kon-
stanz, Germany +49 (0) 7531 884660
http://meyerlab-konstanz.weebly.com/dr-
amber-makowicz.html Amber Makowicz
<amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de >Amber Makowicz
<amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de >Mariensee Germany SNP
DataManagement Apr4-6
Dear All
for those working with SNP data, I would like to draw
your attention to a three day workshop from April 4{
6,2017 on:
\SNP data management with TheSNPpit software pack-
age"
organized at the Institute of Farm Animal Genetics
(FLI) in Mariensee near Hannover/Germany and run
bei Helmut Lichtenberg and myself.
TheSNPpit is a high performance database system for
managing large scale SNP data. (for detailed informa-
tion see: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=-
10.1371/journal.pone.0164043 )
The workshop is targeted at people managing and ana-
lyzing SNP data from various species and SNP arrays
from possibly millions of samples.
The workshop will cover everything from software in-
stallation to hands on use of TheSNPpit. Participants
must bring their Linux laptops together with their own
SNP data.
Accommodation will be available locally. There is no
course fee, but participants will have to pay for their
accommodation and meals.
For registration and questions get in touch by February
28, 2017.
Greetings
Eildert Groeneveld Institute of Farm Animal Ge-
netics (FLI) Mariensee 31535 Neustadt Germany
Tel : (+49)(0)5034 8715155 Fax : (+49)(0)5034
8715143 e-mail: eildert.groeneveld@i.de web:
http://vce.tzv.fal.de \eildert.groeneveld@i.de"
<eildert.groeneveld@i.de >
NordU Norway
NGSOfNonModelOrganisms
May31-Jun1136 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Course: NordUNorway. HighThroughputSequencin-
gOfNonModelOrganisms. May31-June1
High throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies are
being applied to a wide range of important topics in
biology. However, the analyses of non-model organisms,
for which little previous sequence information is avail-
able, pose specic problems. This course will address the
specic strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS
technologies, the computational resources needed for
HTS, and how to analyze non-model species using HTS.
The course consists of practical training in preparing and
running fragment libraries, HTS bioinformatics training,
and lecturing/seminars of HTS approaches specically
targeting non-model organisms.
A detailed course description is available here.
We will accept a maximum of 10 students. The closing
date for applications is April 29.
If you have questions regarding the course, please con-
tact Prof. Truls Moum at truls.b.moum@nord.no
\Alexander-Jueterbock@web.de" <Alexander-
Jueterbock@web.de >
Porto Portugal Metabarcoding
May1-5
Dear Colleagues,
We are please to announce that this year the seventh
DNA Metabarcoding Spring School will held in Porto
(Portugal) and will be organized in collaboration with
Simon Jarman and the CBIO Research Center in Biodi-
versity and Genetic resources.
Please take care than this year the registration period
will end by March the 15th, 2017.
http://metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article85 Best re-
gards
Eric Coissac
Dr Eric Coissac Associate professor Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine UMR UGA-USMB-CNRS 5553 Uni-
versit e Grenoble Alpes CS 40700 38058 Grenoble cedex
9 -France
The seventh DNA metabarcoding Spring School at Porto
DNA metabarcoding is a rapidly evolving method for as-
sessing biodiversity from environmental DNA and bulk
samples. It has a wide range of applications: biodiversitymonitoring, animal diet assessment, reconstruction of
paleo communities, among others. DNA metabarcoding
uses molecular techniques such as PCR and next gener-
ation sequencing, and integrates skills in bioinformatics
and biostatistics with classical ecological knowledge.
The DNA metabarcoding spring school is now in its
seventh edition, and this year it is co-organized by the
metabarcoding.org team and the CIBIO at Porto - Por-
tugal
The DNA metabarcoding spring school will be held from
May 1st to 5th, 2017
The school will be divided in two parts:
- Two days of lectures, May 1st and 2nd. - Three days
of practicals
All the lectures and the practicals will be taught in En-
glish The number of participants in the lecture portion
is not limited, but registration is mandatory.
The number of participants in the practical portion is
limited to 24.
Candidates can apply for the school by sending an email
to the following address :
porto2017@metabarcoding.org
The email must contain a brief curriculum vitae and
a short letter of motivation. For applicants wishing to
participate in the practical sessions, we request a more
complete letter indicating how your research will benet
from DNA metabarcoding and what you are hoping
to learn from this school. As part of the course, each
participant in the practical portion will give a ash talk
(5 minutes) about your research and how it is related
to DNA metabarcoding.
Main lecturers
- Fr ed eric Boyer (LECA, CNRS, France) - Antony
Chariton (Makerere University, Australia) - Eric Cois-
sac (LECA, UGA, France) - Bruce Deagle (Australian
Antarctic Division - Australia) - Simon Jarman (CIBIO,
Portugal) - Pierre Taberlet (LECA, CNRS, France) -
Lucie Zinger (EDB, CNRS, France)
Course Schedule
The lectures will cover dierent aspects of DNA metabar-
coding. The bioinformatics practicals will introduce
data analysis from raw sequences to basic ecological con-
clusions. The molecular ecology practical will present
basic techniques for DNA extraction in the eld and
DNA amplication by PCR.
Venue
The meeting will be held at the Parque Biol ogico de
Gaia (41 ^Ao05'49.5\N 8 ^Ao33'21.9"W):March 1, 2017 EvolDir 137
http://www.parquebiologico.pt/doc.php?id=141 This
location has accommodation for all participants in rooms
with 2,4 or 6 beds (c.a 20 euro per night and per person).
The venue has a lecture hall and conference rooms to be
used for the course. Breakfast and lunch will be avail-
able on site (16 euro per person per day for both) while
dinner will be arranged at nearby local restaurants for
approximately 20 euro per person per day. Vegetarian
options will be available for all meals.
To get there:
For attendees arriving on the 31st April, the Porto DNA
metabarcoding team will collect you from the airport.
If you are arriving earlier in Porto, there are several
public transport options. The most direct way to get to
Porto is to y to the Francisco Sa Carneiro International
Airport:
http://www.porto-airport.com/ Direct ight are avail-
able from more than fty cities. This airport is serviced
by a range of airlines including TAP, Ryanair and Easy-
Jet.
Porto also has regular, low cost train connections to
Lisbon and a range of other Portuguese destinations as
well as Vigo and Madrid in Spain. More information
can be found here:
https://www.cp.pt/passageiros/en/train-times/-
Stations/porto-campanha Porto has an ecient Metro
light rail service:
http://en.metrodoporto.pt/ that can be used to travel
from the airport or train stations to Santo Ovidio sta-
tion, which is the closest one to the venue. From there
a taxi or Uber will take you to the venue.
For some country Portugal requires a Schenguen entry
visa, arranged before travel.
Eric Coissac <eric.coissac@inria.fr >
Portugal PopulationGenetics
Mar13-17
ANNOUNCEMENT / REMINDER
PGDH17 Population Genetics and Demographic His-
tory: model-based approaches
The GTPB is proud to announce that the above hands-
on training course is open for applications
IMPORTANT DATES for this Course Deadline for ap-
plications: Mar 6th 2017 Course date: March 13th -March 17th 2017
Candidates with adequate prole will be accepted in
the next 72 hours after the application until we reach
20 participants.
Please check the course website for details: http:/-
/gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/PGDH17/ Hoping
that this course meets your interests,
Pedro Fernandes { Pedro Fernandes Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia Apartado 14 2781-901
OEIRAS PORTUGAL Tel +351 21 4407912 http:/-
/gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt \Pedro L. Fernandes"
<pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
Rosco EcolEvolutionaryGenomics
Jun5-16
13^th Summer course on marine ecological & evolution-
ary genomics at the Marine Biological Station of Rosco
(F)
First announcement
>From June 5th ^- June 16th, 2017
the 13 ^th Summer Course on Marine Ecological & Evo-
lutionary Genomics - MEEG 2017
takes place at the Station Biologique de Rosco, Rosco,
France.
Aims:
Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding the ma-
rine environment and for an ecient use of its resources.
State of the art NGS methods have revolutionized the
eld, spawning applications in basic research, biotechnol-
ogy and resource management. The course will focus on
the latest developments in population genomics, includ-
ing biodiversity, evolution, comparative and functional
aspects through lectures, case studies and computer
labs. It takes place at the Biological Station, a vibrant
research community of 273 scientists and support person-
nel, located in the old town and shing port of Rosco,
Brittany, France.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics.
- Genomics - next generation sequencing, database
searching, basic skills in data handling and bioinfor-
matics
- Population genomics - diversity, structure, connectiv-138 EvolDir March 1, 2017
ity and gene ow, assignment, eective population size,
population dynamics, adaptive variation, genotyping by
sequencing
- Environmental genomics - environment-genome inter-
actions, ecogenomics and metagenetics
- Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular
evolution at the functional level, genomic architecture,
functional networks
- Comparative genomics - whole genome comparisons,
concatenated phylogenies, genome organization, anno-
tating genomic information, co-evolution
- metagenomics
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group:
PhD students (at least in their second year) and junior
postdocs with a solid knowledge in ecological and/or
evolutionary genetics.
18 participants will be selected on the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project
2. Background and experience
3. We aim at training people with dierent research
backgrounds; not more than one person per institute
will be considered. We implement a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by Friday 14 ^th
April and will have to conrm attendance within 7 days.
There is a waiting list in case of non-conrmations and
cancellations.
Teaching sta :
Nicola Barson, NMBU, No
Sarah Bouchemousse, UniFr, Ch
Jonas Collen, SB-Rosco, FR
Simon Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK
Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls, FR
Erica Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco
Frederique Viard, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee
Jonas Collen, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR
Matthias Obst, Univ. Gothenburg, SENic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA
Nathalie Turque, EMBRC-France, FR
Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR
Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
For information, a yer and application please check
http://meeg2017.sciencesconf.org . Application deadline
is April 2 2017.
Filip Volckaert <lip.volckaert@kuleuven.be >
SwissAlps SexualSelection Aug28-31
SIGNIFICANCE OF SEXUAL SELECTION FOR
POPULATION FITNESS
WHEN ? 28-31 August 2017
WHERE? Faeralp, Swiss Alps (CH)
MORE INFOS AND REGISTRATION https://-
www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=1128&uid=3366 ORGA-
NIZER Prof. Claus Wedekind, University of Lausanne
(CH)
INVITED SPEAKERS Prof. David Berger, University
of Uppsala (SE) Prof. Andrew P. Hendry, McGill Uni-
versity (CA) Prof. Hanna Kokko, University of Z urich
(CH) Prof. John Pannell, University of Lausanne (CH)
Prof. Jacek Radwan, University of Poznan (PL) Prof.
Leigh Simmons, University of Western Australia (AU)
DESCRIPTION Sexual selection is expected to promote
population tness by enhancing the reproductive suc-
cess of individuals of high genetic quality (i.e. of high
breeding value for tness), or by purging the genome
of deleterious mutations, e.g. via mate preferences for
condition- ^A'dependent traits or dominance ghts within
sexes. The signicance of such eects is not suciently
understood yet. Estimates range from minor importance
to the benets of sexual selection even outweighing the
costs of sex. We will discuss the problem in the context
of current environmental changes and the potential of
rapid evolution.
QUERIES caroline.betto-colliard@unil.ch
Caroline Betto-Colliard <Caroline.Betto-
Colliard@unil.ch >March 1, 2017 EvolDir 139
Switzerland EvolBiol Jun17-23
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps: deadline
extended until 20 February
The 2017 edition of the Evolutionary Biology Work-
shop in the Alps will take place on 17-23 June 2017
in Riederfurka, Switzerland (https://biologie.cuso.ch/-
index.php?id=1128)
Target participants are PhD students in early stages of
PhD and advanced Master students.
The main goals of this annual workshop, based on a con-
cept developed by Stephen Stearns and John Maynard
Smith, are to develop the following skills: - developing
your scientic ideas through discussions in groups; -
thinking critically and expressing oneself clearly; - turn-
ing a general idea into a research project; - writing a
research proposal and defending it.
Faculty: Lynda Delph (Indiana University) Curt Lively
(Indiana University) Noah Whiteman (University of Cal-
ifornia Berkeley) Sergio Rasmann (University of Neucha-
tel) Tadeusz Kawecki (University of Lausanne)
It is you, the students, who will be in charge in this
course. You will be divided in groups of 4-5 students.
In those groups, you will work on your ideas. You, as a
group, will decide what the important open questions
in broadly dened evolutionary biology are, you will
choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal for a re-
search project that will address it. The faculty will visit
the groups during the discussions to answer questions,
provide coaching and give feedback on the projects, but
they will generally take the back seat. Additionally,
the faculty will give informal talks about their research
and be available for informal discussions with individual
students. At the end you will present your projects to
other participants, and we will party.
The workshop will take place in Villa Cassel (http://-
www.pronatura-aletsch.ch/home-en), at 2000 m of alti-
tude, in a 110 year old villa where Winston Churchill
once stayed, amid the magnicent mountain landscape
of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and a walking dis-
tance from the largest glacier of the Alps. This isolated
site will help you to concentrate on the course while
giving you also the chance to enjoy the views and the
alpine ora.
Fee: CHF 490.-Participants will receive a course certicate for 3 ETCS
credits.
To apply, send a single le (pdf or rtf) containing a
short motivation letter including a brief summary of
your research interest, a cv, and the name of your scien-
tic advisor to Caroline Betto-Colliard <Caroline.Betto-
Colliard@unil.ch >, with Cc to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch .
Please put \Evolutionary workshop" in the subject. Ap-
plication deadline has been extended until 20 February
2017.
\tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch" <tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch >
UAlgarve Portugal
FishPopGenomics May8-10
Dear Colleagues,
We are please to announce the Euromarine Forsight
Workshop on The Application of Population Genomics
to Fisheries Management, at CCMAR, University of
Algarve from the 8-10th May, Faro, Portugal
Please take care the registration period will end by
March the 31st, 2017.
The workshop is designed to facilitate interaction
and promote synergistic activities aimed at improved
stock monitoring, prediction, and management to
ensure sustainability in response to naturally- and
anthropogenically-induced changes to the marine en-
vironment.
There are three main themes:
1. Fish stock delineation and management 2. Popula-
tion genomics and sheries 3. The future of sheries
management in the genomic era
Five top scientists will give keynote talks that will set
the debate, followed by oral presentations given by the
attendants. A discussion among all participants will be
conducted by a pivot/rapporteur to produce a synthesis
report.
Keynote speakers:
- Gary Carvalho (Univ. Bangor, UK)
- Stefano Mariani (Salford Univ., UK)
- Ian R. Bradbury (DFO, Canada)
- Jann T. Martinsohn (JRC, Italy)
- Shawn Narun (CRPN, USA)140 EvolDir March 1, 2017
You will nd any additional information on:
WEBLINK:
goo.gl/g1cLun
And you can contact us by email:
euromarine.ccmar@gmail.com
Cheers,
Rita Castilho
Rita Castilho <rita.castil@gmail.com >
UBirmingham
EnvironmentalGenomics Mar5-10
NERC-MDIBL Environmental Genomics and
Metabolomics Training Course 2017
A NERC funded short course to guide genomics and
metabolomics research applied to environmental sciences
http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/biosciences/-
conferences/mdibl-course/ Date: 5-10 March 2017
Location: The University of Birmingham, UK
Number of places: up to 50 Participation: Open to ev-
eryone. Priority is given to NERC-funded PhD students
and early-career scientists. Conrmation for attendance
will be announced February 23, 2017.
Bursaries: Four (4) bursaries are still available for the
metabolomics track and two (2) remain for the genomics
track, covering registration, travel and accommodations.
Costs for non-NERC funded researchers: Early bird
2105, standard 2340. Ten scholarships remain in the
genomics track, where registration fees are waived.
Course leaders: Professor John Colbourne, Dr Joseph
Shaw, and Dr Ben Brown will lead the genomics course.
The metabolomics course will be lead by Professor Mark
Viant and Dr Warwick Dunn and assisted by sta from
the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility and Birming-
ham Metabolomics Training Facility.
Research Organizations involved: University of Birm-
ingham (UK), BGI China National GeneBank (Shen-
zhen, China), Mount Desert Island Biological Labora-
tory (USA)
For this fourth annual training course in Environmen-
tal Genomics and Metabolomics, the curriculum is ex-
panded to highlight a multi-omics (system biology) ap-
proach to research in environmental sciences. It trainsPhD students and early career postdoctoral scientists
to investigate how gene function and metabolism are
inuenced by environmental conditions while account-
ing for variation that exists within and among natu-
ral populations. The course is built on the paradigm
that this multidisciplinary research eld encompassing
ecology, evolution, toxicology, biostatistics and infor-
matics will most eectively grow by training early ca-
reer environmental scientists to properly design com-
prehensive, large-scale, Next Generation Sequencing
and Metabolomics experiments enabled by drastically
increased sample-throughput and lower costs. Most im-
portantly, the challenges of manipulating and analysing
population-level omics (big) data must be addressed.
The course provides a signicant introduction and much
hands-on training experience so that participants can
initiate their own environmental omics study and net-
work with others in the eld to launch Environmental
Scientist careers in academia and industry. Case studies
using multi-omics data sets collected at the University of
Birmingham will be provided so that you can gain prac-
tical experience of analysing and integrating multi-omics
data.
Daphnia is used for training because of its growing use
as a model system in the environmental sciences and
for improving environmental health protection, yet the
skills learned during the course will be applicable to all
study systems with mature genomics and metabolomics
resources.
Evening Lecture Series Distinguished visiting academics
will provide keynote lectures on each day of the course
to highlight environmental omic applications that draw
on the expertise of our guest faculty.
Course Details The course will include ~1.5 days of
generic environmental omics training and ~3.5 days of
specialised genomics or metabolomics training (parallel
tracks).
The combined sessions will include: * Overviews of
environmental genomics and metabolomics * Practi-
cal experience of analysing and integrating multi-omics
data * Synthesis sessions to obtaining grant funding *
Question and answer sessions with a panel of experts
The genomics track includes: * Library construction
methods and QC * Introduction to automation sys-
tems and sequence data workow * Software solutions
for sequence workows and their application in envi-
ronmental research * RNA-seq alignment * Statistical
considerations for analysing genome-scale data * Prac-
tical experience in applying open-source analysis tools
to visualise complex sequence data and explore genome
sequence variation, analyse Tuxedo output and performMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 141
gene set enrichment analysis * Synthesis sessions to ex-
plore using the most appropriate model organism and
maximising outputs from your sequence data
The metabolomics track includes: * Experimental design
* Quality assurance and quality control in metabolomics
* Hands-on sample preparation * Analytical technologies
including mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy *
Data processing, including LC-MS and SIMS stitching
procedures * Univariate and multivariate data analysis
approaches * Metabolite identication
Please feel free to inquire with Dr [X] Catherine Winder
or John Colbourne.
c.l.winder@bham.ac.uk J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk
School of Biosciences, The University of Birmingham
Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Davis
AppliedPhylogenetics Mar11-18
[FINAL NOTICE] UC Davis WORKSHOP IN AP-
PLIED PHYLOGENETICS at Bodega Marine Lab-
oratory, Bodega Bay, California
March 11-18, 2017
Sponsored by the University of California, Davis and
Bodega Marine Laboratory
website: http://treethinkers.org/ Introduction Phyloge-
netic methods have revolutionized modern systematics
and become indispensable tools in evolution, ecology
and comparative biology, playing an increasingly impor-
tant role in analyses of biological data at all levels of
organization ranging from molecules to ecological com-
munities. The estimation of phylogenetic trees is now a
formalized statistical problem with general agreement
on the central issues and questions. A nearly standard
set of topics is now taught as part of the curriculum
at many colleges and universities. On the other hand,
application of phylogenetic methods to novel problems
outside systematics is an area of special excitement, in-
novation, and controversy, and perspectives vary widely.This Spring, for the seventeenth year, we will teach a
workshop for graduate students interested in applying
phylogenetic methods to diverse topics in biology. The
one-week course is an intensive exploration of problems
to which modern phylogenetic approaches are being
applied and the most current statistical tools and ap-
proaches that are used to solve those problems. We cover
a wide range of topics in comparative phylogenetics. The
course starts with recent advances in phylogenetic infer-
ence, and then focuses on methods for making inferences
from phylogenies.
The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Labora-
tory on the beautiful Northern California coast, which
has on-site housing. The course format will involve equal
parts of lecture and hands-on software training (with
an emphasis on performing analyses using RevBayes:
http://revbayes.github.io/about.html). One afternoon
during the week will be left free for eld trips to local
natural areas.
Topics Covered * Estimating, evaluating and interpret-
ing phylogenetic trees * Recent advances in Bayesian
inference of phylogeny * Model specication issues:
model selection, adequacy and uncertainty * Diagnos-
ing MCMC performance * Divergence-time estimation:
relaxed clocks, fossil calibration * Species-tree estima-
tion and species delimitation * Character evolution:
ancestral-state estimation, rates of trait evolution * Lin-
eage diversication: detecting rate shifts, testing key-
innovation hypotheses
Prerequisites Available housing limits course enrollment
to~30 students. Preference is given to doctoral candi-
dates who are in the early to middle stages of their thesis
research, and who have completed sucient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience)
to provide some familiarity with phylogenetic methods.
Unfortunately, because of limits on class size, postdocs
and faculty are generally discouraged from applying.
Admission and Fees Students will be admitted based on
academic qualications and appropriateness of research
interests. The course fee is $750. This includes room
and board at BML for duration of the course (arriving
March 11, leaving March 18) and return transportation
from Davis to the Bodega Marine Labs.
Application Deadline Applications are due by January
31, 2017. Please send a completed application form and
one letter of recommendation from your major advi-
sor. Applications should be sent via email as PDFs to
mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students will be notied via
e-mail by February 4, 2017 of acceptance.
Application Forms and Information Visit the Bodega
website for additional information and to download an142 EvolDir March 1, 2017
application form: http://treethinkers.org/ Send all
application materials to:
Mike May Department of Evolution and Ecology 5343
Storer Hall University of California Davis Davis, CA
95616 email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com email: mikeryan-
may@gmail.com
UFlorida Movement May8-12
* Venue: Fort Lauderdale REC, Davie, Florida
* Contact: Mathieu Basille (basille@u.edu)
* Instructors: Simona Picardi, David Bucklin & Mathieu
Basille (UF WEC)
* Guest lecturers: Anne Berger (Leibniz Institute for
Zoo and Wildlife Research, Germany), Hamish Camp-
bell (Charles Darwin University, Australia), Francesca
Cagnacci (Fondazione Edmund Mach, Italy) & Ferdi-
nando Urbano (Independent researcher, Italy)
* Attendance: Reserved for Natural Resource managers
(for a fee) and UF students (with tuition waiver). Lim-
ited seats are available on a rst come - rst served
basis. Natural Resource managers, please register on
Eventbrite.com [1].
* More info on: http://ase-research.org/training/-
PostGIS 2017/ Recent technological progress has al-
lowed ecologists to obtain a huge amount and diversity
of animal movement data sets of increasing spatial and
temporal resolution and size, together with complex
associated information related to the environmental con-
text, such as habitat types based on remote sensing,
population density, and weather. Based on several years
of experience on multiple species, this intensive ve-
day workshop is designed to teach participants how to
handle, manage, store and retrieve movement data in
a spatial database, and how to eventually feed them to
analysis tools. In the rst part of the course, partici-
pants will be exposed to basics of spatial databases for
wildlife tracking data, using PostgreSQL/PostGIS, the
reference free and open-source database system. The
second part will focus on the integration of environmen-
tal data in the process. The third part will tackle the
specics of movement data, and how to connect the
database to the R statistical environment for analysis.
Step by step, using reproducible, hands-on exercises
that will be released on-line, we will provide a complete
and seamless procedure from raw data to nal analysis
that will enable participants to fully manage and inte-grate complex animal movement data sets. Although
the workshop is intended for a wide audience, basic
knowledge of SQL, spatial databases and R are highly
recommended to get the best experience.
Participants will have to bring their own laptop com-
puters, with necessary software installed (instructions
for open-source software will be provided).
Reference: Urbano, F. & Cagnacci, F. (ed.) (2014)
Spatial Database for GPS Wildlife Tracking Data: A
Practical Guide to Creating a Data Management Sys-
tem with PostgreSQL/PostGIS and R. Springer, 257 pp.
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-03743-1
{
Mathieu Basille
basille@u.edujhttp://ase-research.org/basille +1 954-
577-6314jUniversity of Florida FLREC
Le tout est de tout dire, et je manque de mots Et
je manque de temps, et je manque d'audace. Paul
~Aluard
\basille@u.edu" <basille@u.edu >
UK
AdvancingInRforEvolutionaryBiol
Apr24-28
\Advancing in Statistical Modelling for evolutionary bi-
ologists and ecologists using R"
Delivered by Dr. Luc Bussiere and Dr. Ane Timenes
Laugen
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/advancing-
statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/ This course will
run from 24th - 28th April 2017 at SCENE eld station,
Loch Lomond, Glasgow
Course only and all inclusive packages are available.
This course will provide an introduction to working with
real-life data typical of those encountered in the eld
of evolutionary biology and ecology. The course will be
delivered by Dr. Luc Bussiere|and Dr. Ane Timenes
Laugen who are|both practicing academics in the eld
of ecology.||This ve day course will consist of series
of modules (each lasting roughly half a day) covering|
model selection and simplication, generalised linear
models, mixed eects models,| and non-linear models.
Along the way you will gain in depth experience|inMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 143
data 'wrangling', data and model visualisation and plot-
ting, as well as exploring and understanding model
diagnostics.|Classes will comprises of a mixture of lec-
tures and practicals designed to either build required
skills for future modules or to perform a family of anal-
yses that is frequently encountered in the biological
literature.
Course content is as follows
Day 1 Course introduction - Techniques for data manip-
ulation, aggregation, and visualisation; introduction to
linear regression. Packages: ftidyrg,fdplyrg,fggplot2g
Day 2 Linear models - Diagnostics, collinearity, scaling,
plotting tted values); tting and interpreting interac-
tion terms; model selection and simplication; general
linear models and ANCOVA. - Packages: fstatsg,fcarg
Day 3 Generalized linear models - Logistic and Poisson
regression; predicting using model objects and visualiz-
ing model ts. - Packages: fbroomg,fvisregg,fggplot2g
Day 4 Mixed eects models - Theory and practice of
mixed eect models; visualising xed and random eects.
- Packages:flme4g,fbroomg,fggplot2g,fsjPlotg
Day 5 Fitting nonlinear functions - Polynomial & Mech-
anistic models; brief introduction to more advanced
topics & combining methods (e.g., generalised linear
mixed eects, nonlinear mixed eects, and zero-inated
and zero-altered models). - Packages: fnlsToolsg. -
Afternoon to discuss own data if time permits
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Our other courses
1. STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING
SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR #SIMM 28th Feb -
3rd Mar 2017, Scotland, Dr. Andrew Parnell, Dr.
Andrew Jackson http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
stable-isotope-mixing-models-using-r-simm03/ 2.
NETWORK ANAYLSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING
R #NTWA 6th - 10th March 2017, Scotland, Dr.
Marco Scotti http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
network-analysis-ecologists-ntwa01/ 3. ADVANCES
IN MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL
ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R #MVSP 3rd - 7th
April 2017, Scotland, Prof. Pierre Legendre, Dr.
Olivier Gauthier http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
advances-in-spatial-analysis-of-multivariate-ecological-
data-theory-and-practice-mvsp02/ 4. ADVANCING IN
STATISTICAL MODELLING FOR EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS USING R #ADVR
17th - 21st April 2017, Scotland, Dr. Luc Bussiere, Dr.Ane Timenes Laugen http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advancing-statistical-modelling-using-r-advr06/
5. CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY
APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO FOR EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS
#CDSR 15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/coding-data-
management-and-shiny-applications-using-rstudio-
for-evolutionary-biologists-and-ecologists-cdsr01/
6. GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING
R #GMMR 5th - 9th June 2017, Scotland, Prof.
Dean Adams, Prof. Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/
7. MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF SPATIAL
ECOLOGICAL DATA #MASE
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK BioinformaticsUsingLinux
Oct16-20
Introductionto Bioinformatics using LINUX
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-
to-bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/ Instructor:Dr.
Martin Jones
Thiscourse will run from 16th - 20th October at SCENE
(the Scottish Centrefor Ecology and the Natural Envi-
ronment), Loch Lomond National Park,Glasgow.
Courseoverview: Most high-throughput bioinformatics
work these days takesplace on the Linux command line.
The programs which do the majorityof the computa-
tional heavy lifting ^AX genome assemblers, read map-
pers,and annotation tools ^AX are designed to work best
when used witha command-line interface. Because the
command line can be an intimidatingenvironment, many
biologists learn the bare minimum needed toget their
analysis tools working. This means that they miss out
on thepower of Linux to customize their environment
and automate many partsof the bioinformatics work-
ow. This course will introduce the Linuxcommand
line environment from scratch and teach students how
to makethe most of its tools to achieve a high level of
productivity when workingwith biological data.144 EvolDir March 1, 2017
Availability:15 places total.
Courseprogramme Monday16th ^AV Classes from 09:00
to 17:00 (approximately) ^A^ASession 1 - The design of
Linux Inthe rst session we briey cover the design
of Linux: how is it dierentfrom Windows/OSX and
how is it best used? We'll then jump straightonto the
command line and learn about the layout of the Linux
lesystemand how to navigate it. We'll describe Linux's
le permissionsystem (which often trips up beginners),
how paths work, and howwe actually run programs on
the command line. We'll learn a few tricksfor using the
command line more eciently, and how to deal with
programsthat are misbehaving. We'll nish this session
by looking at thebuilt in help system and how to read
and interpret manual pages.
^A^ASession 2 - System management We'llrst look at
a few command line tools for monitoring the status
ofthe system and keeping track of what's happening to
processor power, memory,and disk space. We'll go over
the process of installing new softwarefrom the built in
repositories (which is easy) and from source codedown-
loads (which is trickier). We'll also introduce some tools
for benchmarkingsoftware (measuring the time/memory
requirements of processinglarge datasets).
Tuesday17th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approxi-
mately)
^A^ASession 3 - Manipulating tabular data Manydata
types we want to work with in bioinformatics are stored
as tabularplain text les, and here we learn all about
manipulating tabulardata on the command line. We'll
start with simple things like extractingcolumns, lter-
ing and sorting, searching for text before movingon to
more complex tasks like searching for duplicated values,
summarizinglarge les, and combining simple tools into
long commands.
^A^ASession 4 - Constructing pipelines Inthis session we
will look at the various tools Linux has for construct-
ingpipelines out of individual commands. Aliases, shell
redirection,pipes, and shell scripting will all be intro-
duced here. We'llalso look at a couple of specic tools
to help with running tools onmultiple processors, and
for monitoring the progress of long running tasks.
Wednesday18th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approxi-
mately)
^A^ASession 5 ^AV EMBOSS EMBOSSis a suite of bioin-
formatics command-line tools explicitly designedto work
in the Linux paradigm. We'll get an overview of the
dierentsequence data formats that we might expect to
work with, and putwhat we learned about shell scripting
to biological use by building apipeline to compare codon
usage across two collections of DNA sequences.^A^ASession 6 ^AV Using a Linux server Oftenin bioinfor-
matics we'll be working on a Linux server rather than
ourown computer ^AX typically because we need access
to more computing power,or to specialized tools and
datasets. In this session we'll learn howto connect to
a Linux server and how to manage sessions. We'll also
considerthe various ways of moving data to and from a
server from your owncomputer, and nish with a discus-
sion of the considerations we have tomake when working
on a shared computer.
Thursday19th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 (approxi-
mately)
^A^ASession 7 ^AV Combining methods Inthe next two
sessions ^AX i.e. one full day ^AX we'll put everything
wehave learned together and implement a workow for
next-gen sequence analysis.In this rst session we'll carry
out quality control on some paired-endIllumina data and
map these reads to a reference genome. We'llthen look
at various approaches to automating this pipeline, al-
lowingus to quickly do the same for a second dataset.
^A^ASession 8 ^AV Combining methods Thesecond part
of the next-gen workow is to call variants to identify
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK RADseqStacks May22-26
Hi evoldir,
We will be holding our annual RADseq/Stacks workshop
at the Earlham Institute (formerly TGAC) in Norwich,
United Kingdom in May.
The course will be one week long, May 22-26, and will
include a thorough introduction to UNIX and subse-
quently Stacks, including sessions on the RAD protocol
as well as sessions analyzing several sets of RAD data
(with/without a reference genome, including population
genetics and phylogenetics subjects).
Instructors: Julian Catchen, Josie Paris and Konrad
Paszkiewicz
The course is open to everyone with no prerequisites
required. More details can be found here:
http://www.earlham.ac.uk/population-March 1, 2017 EvolDir 145
variation-genetics \J.R.Paris@exeter.ac.uk"
<J.R.Paris@exeter.ac.uk >
UK ShinyAppsForEvolutionaryBiol
May15-19
Coding, data management, and Shiny applications us-
ing RStudio for evolutionary biologists and ecologists
(CDSR01)
http://www.prstatistics.com/course/coding-data-
management-and-shiny-applications-using-rstudio-for-
evolutionary-biologists-and-ecologists-cdsr01/ This
course will run from the 15th - 19th May 2017 at
SCENE eld station, Loch Lomond, Scotland.
Course overview: The course will introduce program-
ming logic using the R syntax. The participants will be
able to solve problems involving heterogeneous biologi-
cal datasets and the combined use of dierent statistical
packages, so the advantages of learning programming
skills can be demonstrated. The RMarkdown syntax will
be used to illustrate the advantages of literate program-
ming and the possibilities of code sharing and archiving.
In the sequence, participants will learn how to design
relational databases (RDB) which can be used to man-
age and analyse large biological datasets. They will
learn the basics of the SQL language and how to use it
with R with the package fRMySQLg. To nalise, they
will use the Shiny tool (R Studio) to build interactive
applications to analyse and display data depending on
user inputs. Throughout the course we will emphasise
data, code and analyses best practices that could foster
reproducibility and transparency in science, and the
long-term availability of scientic data. At the end of
the course the participants are expected to be able to
develop small, tailored applications, to read and analyse
datasets using a variety of statistics tools.
Intended Audience: Researchers and postgraduate stu-
dents working with in evolutionary biology and ecologi-
cal data who want to have more autonomy and exibility
in their quantitative analyses, and need to access and
analyse large datasets with R.
Monday 15th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 1:
Programming Logic R syntax (Variable types - operators
- conditionals - loops - writing functions) Programming
and commenting code with RMarkdown
Tuesday 16th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 2:
Data structures R syntax (arrays, lists, data frames,matrices) Data wrangling with fdplyrgandftidyrg; the
fgpackage and data tables for large datasets (e.g. tran-
scriptomics; whole-genome data) Best practices of data
acquisition, organization and storage
Wednesday 17th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 3:
Relational databases Introduction to the SQL language
and MySQL (open-source RDB freeware) Accessing and
analysing large datasets using the package fRMySQLg
As an example, we will combine DNA sequence datasets
with IUCN Red List data illustrate the use of RDB to
biological datasets.
Thursday 18th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Module 4:
Introduction to Shiny (R Studio) Shiny - Server and user
interface commands As an example we will use Shiny to
develop a small application where users can select dif-
ferent species and genes and run/visualize phylogenetic
trees usingfapegrunning in the background.
Friday 19th - Classes from 09:00 to 16:00 Module 5:
Wrapping-up Development and presentation of individ-
ual projects combining data wrangling skills and user
inputs using Shiny (R Studio)
Teaching Format: The course will be highly practical,
with a series of hands-on, step-by-step, problem-solving
exercises, combining the dierent tools to solve ecologi-
cal and evolutionary biology problems. The participants
are invited to think of a problem that requires program-
ming skills to be solved, and can bring their own data
for a case-study. At the end of each day the participants
will have time to work on their on projects and apply
the skills learned on that day.
We oer two packages COURSE ONLY - Includes lunch
and refreshments. ALL INCLUSIVE - Includes break-
fast, lunch, dinner, refreshments, minibus to and from
meeting point and accommodation. Accommodation is
multiple occupancy (max 3 people) single sex en-suite
rooms. Arrival Sunday 14th May and departure Friday
19th May PM.
Please send enquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
or visit www.prstatistics.com for more details.
Other relevant upcoming courses are as follows
1. ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
(February 2017) #APYB http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/advanced-python-biologists-apyb01/ 2. STA-
BLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R (February 2017)
#SIMM http://www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-
isotope-mixing-models-using-r-simm03/ 3. NETWORK
ANAYLSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (March
2017) #NTWA
/146 EvolDir March 1, 2017
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMichigan NextProf May2-5
*NextProf** Science - Future Faculty Workshop *
We would like to invite interested evolutionary biolo-
gists to the NextProf Future Faculty Workshop at the
University of Michigan. *NextProf Science *will be held
May 2-5, 2017 and is a workshop designed to encourage
talented scientists and mathematicians with a demon-
strated commitment to diversity to consider academia as
a career. The workshop is aimed at helping participants
develop strategies that will strengthen their ability to
pursue academic careers. The workshop is targeted at
scholars ready to make take the next step {postdoctoral
fellows and very advanced doctoral students. Underrep-
resented minorities and women are especially encouraged
to apply. Travel, lodging, and meals will be provided for
those selected to participate. Deadline for submission
of all application materials is February 15, 2017. Learn
more at: sites.lsa.umich.edu/nextprof-science.
Best wishes,
Gina Baucom
Regina S Baucom Assistant Professor 2059 Kraus Nat-
ural Science Building 830 North University Dept of
EEB University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 (734)
647-8490 http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/baucom-lab rsbau-
com@umich.edu
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution
Jul20-30
Convening for its 30th year at the Marine Biological Lab
in Woods Hole, MA, the Workshop on Molecular Evolu-
tion will be held July 20-30, 2017. The Workshop is the
premier program for integrating the methods, theory,
and applications of molecular phylogenetics, statistical
genetics, molecular evolution, and related disciplines.
Students work closely with internationally-recognizedscientists, receiving (i) high-level instruction in the prin-
ciples of molecular evolution and evolutionary genomics,
(ii) advanced training in statistical methods best suited
to modern datasets, and (iii) hands-on experience with
the latest software tools (often from the authors of the
programs they are using). The material is delivered via
lectures, discussions, and bioinformatic exercises moti-
vated by contemporary topics in molecular evolution.
A hallmark of this workshop is the direct interaction
between students and eld-leading scientists. The work-
shop serves graduate students, postdocs, and established
faculty from around the world seeking to apply the prin-
ciples of molecular evolution to questions of both basic
and applied biological sciences. A priority of this work-
shop is to foster an environment where students can
learn from each other as well from the course faculty.
As the course progresses, participants learn how to
use the following software to address questions con-
cerning the origins, maintenance, and function of
molecular variation: ASTRAL, BEAST2, BEST, BPP,
FASTA, FigTree, GARLI, MIGRATE, MAFFT, MP-
EST, RaxML, RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*, Phybase,
ipyrad and SVD Quartets. Students will have the op-
portunity to work with software on their own laptops as
well as receive training on how to use the same programs
on a high performance computer cluster.
Course instructors include Peter Beerli, Joseph
Bielawski, Belinda Chang, Mario dos Reis, Casey Dunn,
Deren Eaton, Scott Edwards, Tracy Heath, David Hillis,
Mark Holder, John Huelsenbeck, Lacey Knowles, Laura
Kubatko, Peter Larsen, Paul Lewis, Emily Jane Mc-
Tavish, Conor Meehan, Nicholas Meyerson, William
Pearson, David Swoord, David Weisrock, April Wright,
and Anne Yoder.
Deadline for applications is April 7, 2017: https://-
ws2.mbl.edu/studentapp/studentapp.asp?courseID=-
3DMOLE More information on the Workshop is
available on the dedicated course website: https://-
molevol.mbl.edu/index.php/Main Page The dates for
the Workshop are designed to allow students to segue
directly into the Strategies and Techniques for Analyz-
ing Microbial Population Structures (STAMPS) course,
though please note that applications for STAMPS must
be submitted and are evaluated separately from those
for the Workshop on Molecular Evolution.
For further information, please contact Workshop co-
Directors:
Anne Yoder (anne.yoder@duke.edu) and Joseph
Bielawski (j.bielawski@dal.ca)
adyoder@duke.eduMarch 1, 2017 EvolDir 147
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.